== 0–9 ==:
    1CC Abbreviation of one-credit completion or one-coin clear. To complete an arcade (or arcade-style) game without using continues. 1-up An object that gives the player an extra life (or attempt) in games where the player has a limited number of chances to complete a game or level. 100% To collect all collectibles or to also obtain all achievements (see below) within a game, either indicated within games as a percentage counter or determined by player community consensus. 1v1 An abbreviation of 1 versus 1, denoting two players battling against each other. Can be extended to any player versus player grouping, such as '2v2' to mean two teams of two battling each other, or "1v4" to refer to a team of four players against one (as seen in asymmetrical gameplay). 2D graphics Graphic rendering technique in a two-dimensional perspective, often using sprites. 2.5D graphics Also isometric graphics.Graphic rendering technique of three-dimensional objects set in a two-dimensional plane of movement. Often includes games where some objects are still rendered as sprites. 360 no-scope A 360 no-scope usually refers to a trick shot in a first or third-person shooter video game in which one player kills another with a sniper rifle by first spinning a full circle and then quickly shooting without looking through the scope. 3D graphics Graphic rendering technique featuring three-dimensional objects. 4K resolution An aspect ratio of digital display devices such as televisions and monitors, supporting up to 3840 × 2160 pixel (roughly 4 kilopixels wide) resolutions. 4X A genre of strategic video games, short for "eXplore, eXpand, eXploit, and eXterminate". Such games are usually complicated, involving extensive diplomacy, technology trees, and win conditions. 8-bit A descriptor for hardware or software that arose during the third generation of video game consoles, targeting 8-bit computer architecture. 8K resolution An aspect ratio of digital display devices such as televisions and monitors, supporting up to 7680 × 4320 pixel (roughly 8 kilopixels wide) resolutions. 16-bit A descriptor for hardware or software that arose during the fourth generation of video game consoles, targeting 16-bit computer architecture. 32-bit A descriptor for hardware or software that arose during the fifth generation of video game consoles, targeting 32-bit computer architecture. 64-bit A descriptor for hardware or software that arose during the fifth generation of video game consoles, targeting 64-bit computer architecture.

AAA:
    Also triple A.A high-budget game with a large development team. AAA games are usually multiplatform or are first-party, have multimillion-dollar budgets, and expect to sell millions of copies.

abandonware:
    A game that is forgotten about or abandoned by its developers for any number of reasons, including copyright issues.

ace:
    Usually used within first-person shooters, where a single player manages to eliminate the entire opposing team by themselves while their teammates are alive. Can also be used to describe situations where a player manages to complete a possibly difficult section of game flawlessly. Comparable to pentakill in competitive games with teams made up of 5 players, such as MOBAs. Not to be confused with Team Ace.

achievement:
    Also badge, trophy, medal, cheevo. Meta-goals defined outside a game's parameters. May be external achievements such as those on Xbox Live or Steam, internal achievements such as those in Clash of Clans, or both.

achievement hunter:
    A player who attempts to collect all achievements in a game. Achievement hunters tend to be completionists.

act:
    Sometimes used to refer to individual levels or groups of levels that make up a larger world or storyline. Rarely refers to a downloadable game intended to be part of a larger series which functions as a single game series and gameplay-wise.

action game:
    A game genre emphasizing hand–eye coordination, reflexes, timing, and other physical skills. It includes fighting games, shooters, and platformers.

action point (AP):
    A subunit of a player's turn. For example, a game may allow an action to occur only so long as the player has sufficient 'action points' to complete the action.

action role-playing game (ARPG):
    A genre of role-playing video game where battle actions are performed in real-time instead of a turn-based mechanic.

actions per minute (APM):
    The total number of actions that a player can perform in a minute.

adaptive music:
    Game music which changes and reacts to the actions of the player and state of the game in an attempt to better reflect the game atmosphere.

adaptive AI:
    A form of artificial intelligence which takes data based on how the player performs and uses it to learn to better counter the player.

add-on:
    See downloadable content.

adds:
    A term used commonly in role-playing video games, MMORPGs and beat-'em-ups, referring to the "additional enemies" called in by bosses during encounters.

advance and secure (AAS):
    A player versus player team-based game mode used in tactical first-person shooter games where the players on opposing teams must capture certain predefined points of interest in a game environment in a certain preset order.

adventure game:
    A game genre which emphasizes puzzles, exploration and narrative.

AFK:
    Meaning "away from keyboard". Generally said through a chat function in online multiplayer games when a player intends to be temporarily unavailable.

agency:
    Related to the psychological term of agency, agency or player agency in video games refers to means used by developers to implement the game to make it feel like the player is in control of the game with the game reacting to the player's actions, even though the game itself is fixed in its approach.

aggro:
    An abbreviation of 'aggravation' or 'aggression'. 'Causing aggro' or 'aggroing' in a video game means to attract hostile attention from NPCs or enemies to attack the player-character. 'Managing aggro' involves keeping aggressive NPCs from overwhelming the player or party. The term may be facetiously used in reference to irritated bystanders ('wife aggro', 'mother aggro', etc). Also see hate and rushdown.

aimbot:
    A first-person shooter cheat that allows a player's weapon to automatically aim at a target. In most cases, the aiming reticle locks onto a target within the player's line of sight and the player only has to pull the trigger. Aimbots are one of the most popular cheats in multiplayer FPS, used since 1996's Quake. Compare to the feature auto-aim.

aiming down sights (ADS):
    Also aim down sights.Refers to the common alternate method of firing a gun in a first-person shooter (FPS) game, typically activated by the right mouse button. The real-life analogue is when a person raises a rifle up and places the stock just inside the shoulder area, and leans their head down so they can see in a straight line along the top of the rifle, through both of the iron sights or a scope, if equipped. In most games, this greatly increases accuracy, but can limit vision, situational awareness, mobility, and require a small amount of time to change the weapon position.

alpha release:
    An initial, incomplete version of a game. Alpha versions are usually released early in the development process to test a game's most critical functionality and prototype design concepts. Compare with beta release.

alt:
    Short for 'alternate', the focus on gameplay/progression/development of other available characters (or classes) in a game after one has completed the development of a favored 'main' character. Compare with main.

always-on DRM:
    A type of digital rights management (DRM) that typically requires a connection to the Internet while playing the game.

analog stick:
    Also control stick and thumbstick.A small variation of a joystick, usually placed on a game controller to allow a player more fluent 2-dimensional input than is possible with a D-pad.

animatic:
    A partially animated storyboard with sound effects used during early game development.

animation priority:
    A type of gameplay mechanic in which the playable character's animations have priority over the player's input; in other words, if the player begins an action with a long animation, the animation must play out first before the player can then enter a new command, and attempting to enter a new command will have no effect. Games like the Dark Souls and Monster Hunter series are based on gameplay using animation priority.

Anti-Aim:
    A type of cheat commonly found in first-person shooter games that makes it difficult or impossible for the user's hitboxes to be hit. This can be achieved many ways, but the most common ones are rapidly moving the user's hitboxes, flipping hitboxes (usually backwards or sideways), and sending false packets to the server.

anti-RPG:
    A role-playing video game that subverts the typical elements of such games. The term was coined by the video game Moon: Remix RPG Adventure.

any%:
    A type of speedrun in which the player's objective is to reach the game's end goal as quickly as possible without regard to the normal intermediate steps. Compare to 100%.

AoE:
    1.  See area of effect 2.  Abbreviation of Age of Empires

arcade game:
    A coin-operated ("coin-op") video game usually contained in an upright, tabletop (cocktail or candy cabinet) or semi-enclosed sit-down cabinet. Popular primarily during the late 1970s to 1990s in the West, and still popular in the East to the present day, arcade machines continue to be manufactured and sold worldwide.

area of effect (AoE):
    A term used in many role-playing and strategy games to describe attacks or other effects that affect multiple targets within a specified area. For example, in the role-playing game, Dungeons & Dragons, a fireball spell will deal damage to anyone within a certain radius of where it strikes. In most tactical strategy games artillery weapons have an area of effect that will damage anyone within a radius of the strike zone. Often the effect is stronger on the target than on anything else hit. See also: Splash damage Area of effect can also refer to spells and abilities that are non-damaging. For example, a powerful healing spell may affect anyone within a certain range of the caster (often only if they are a member of the caster's party). Some games also have what are referred to as "aura" abilities that will affect anyone in the area around the person with the ability. For example, many strategy games have hero or officer units that can improve the morale and combat performance of friendly units around them. The inclusion of AoE elements in game mechanics can increase the role of strategy, especially in turn-based games. The player has to place units wisely to mitigate the possibly devastating effects of a hostile area of effect attack; however, placing units in a dense formation could result in gains that outweigh the increased AoE damage received. Point-blank area of effect (PBAoE) is a less-used term for when the affected region is centered on the character performing the ability, rather than at a location of the player's choosing.

ARPG:
    See action role-playing game.

arena mode:
    A side game mode, mostly found in some action-adventure games, in which a player-controlled character is placed in a closed area and challenged to defeat enemies using combat abilities.

arena FPS:
    Arena shooters that use the first-person perspective.

arena shooter:
    Shooting games that are typically based on fast-paced gameplay and in a limited map or level space.

artificial intelligence (AI):
    Algorithms used to generate responsive, adaptive or intelligent game behavior, primarily in non-player characters. Distinct from the computing science concept of 'artificial intelligence'.

assault mode:
    A game mode in which one team tries to attack (or capture) specific areas and the other team tries to defend those points.

asset flipping:
    The practice of creating a game using 'free' art and audio assets, either from an online marketplace or the default stock of assets included with many game engines. Asset-flips are often of very poor quality designed to catch onto a currently popular theme to turn a quick profit. It mimics the practice of flipping in real estate markets.

asymmetric gameplay:
    Cooperative or competitive multiplayer games in which each player will have a different experience arising from differences in gameplay, controls, or in-game character options that are part of the game. This is in contrast to symmetric gameplay where each player will have the same experience, such as in the game Pong. Asymmetric gameplay often arises in competitive games where one player's character is far overpowered but outnumbered by other players who are all competing against them, such as in Pac-Man Vs. Asymmetric gameplay can also arise in multiplayer online battle arenas (MOBAs) and hero shooters, where each player selects a different hero or character class with different gameplay abilities from others.

asynchronous gameplay:
    Competitive multiplayer games where the players do not have to be participating at the same time. Such games are usually turn-based, with each player planning a strategy for the upcoming turn, and then having the game resolve all actions of that turn once each player has submitted their strategies.

attract mode:
    Also display mode and show mode. A pre-recorded demonstration of a video game that is displayed when the game is not being played. Originally built into arcade games, the main purpose of the attract mode is to entice passers-by to play the game. It usually displays the game's title screen, the game's story (if it has one), its high score list, sweepstakes (on some games) and the message "Game Over" or "Insert Coin" over or in addition to a computer-controlled demonstration of gameplay. In the Atari 8-bit computers of the late 1970s and 1980s, the term attract mode was sometimes used to denote a simple screensaver that slowly cycled the display colors to prevent phosphor burn-in when no input had been received for several minutes. Attract modes demonstrating gameplay are common in current home video games. Attract mode is not only found in arcade video games, but in most coin-operated games like pinball machines, stacker machines and other games. Cocktail arcade machines on which the screen flips its orientation for each player's turn in two-player games traditionally have the screen's orientation in player 1's favour for the attract mode.

Steyr AUG:
    An AUG is an abbreviated nickname for a long-scoped Burst Rifle, especially in Fortnite, as well as other shooter games. An AUG is a real gun, and the real inspiration for in-game Burst Rifles.

augmented reality (AR):
    Supplementing a real-world environment with computer-generated perceptual information with matching alignment to the real world, which may add to or mask the physical environment. Augmented reality alters the perception of a physical environment, whereas virtual reality replaces the physical environment with a simulated one.

auto battler:
    Also known as "auto chess", a subgenre of strategy games that feature chess-like elements where players place characters on a grid-shaped battlefield during a preparation phase, who then fight the opposing team's characters without any further direct input from the player. It was created and popularized by Dota Auto Chess in early 2019.

auto-aim:
    Also aim-assist.A game mechanic built into some games to decrease the level of difficulty by locking onto or near targets for faster aiming. Games utilize "hard" or "soft" aim settings to respectively either lock directly onto an enemy or assist the player's aim towards the enemy while giving some freedom of precision. Not to be confused with aimbot.

auto-run:
    A system in video games that causes the player-character to move forward without input from the user. The system is predominantly used in platform games, as well as being a toggleable feature in some open world and MMO games where users may need to travel long distances without the assistance of fast travel systems.

autosave:
    A saving function in many video games that saves the current progress without the player's input, often after completing a mission, level, or winning a match. These points are called save points.

avatar:
    The player's representation in the game world. See also player-character.

B2P:
    Buy-to-play, see games as a product.

B-hopping:
    Also bunny hopping.Repeated use of the jump button while moving, which increases the character's momentum in some games. Originally a glitch in Quake engine games, a large portion of games have implemented it as a feature and gamers have taken into doing this.

backfill:
    Also backfilling.A system of many competitive team-based multiplayer games that automatically finds a new player based on their skill level in an already existing game in case of one player leaving it. Usually only seen in casual modes to keep competitive integrity in ranked games.

badge:
    Also achievement.An indicator of accomplishment or skill, showing that the player has performed some particular action within the game.

balance:
    Aspects of a multi-player game that keep it fair for all players. This usually refers to balance between characters (or any other choices made before battle) and options (which occur in battle). Balance between choices made before battle usually means that no character is likely to dominate another opponent, while balance between options usually refers to every option having a viable counter, preventing gameplay from degenerating to using a single option with minor variations. The issue of balanced gameplay is a heavily debated matter among most games' player communities.

ban:
    Also banhammer.In online games, the act of kicking a player from the server, and then employing means of preventing them from returning. This is usually accomplished using a blacklist. In some games, done in "ban waves" against cheaters to obfuscate how they were recognized as cheating in the game.

banner:
    What players usually call the gacha mechanic in a game. Depending on the game, it can stick around indefinitely or have a time limit. The latter kind most often increases the probability of getting specific characters or items.

battle pass:
    A type of in-game monetization that provides additional content for a game through a tiered system, rewarding the player with in-game items by playing the game and completing specific challenges.

battle royale game:
    A video game genre that blends elements of survival games with last-man-standing gameplay. Players search for equipment while eliminating competitors in a shrinking safe zone. Usually there are many more players involved than in other kinds of multi-player games.

best-in-slot:
    Any item or ability that can be considered the best possible option in a given slot. This can vary between players and playstyles, but commonly, any specific playstyle is likely to have either a single or a small set of items considered to be the best. This may be due to favorable effects, good match-ups against most opponents, or high stats. Typically abbreviated as BiS.

beta release:
    Also beta testing. An early release of a video game, following its alpha release, where the game developer seeks feedback from players and testers to remove bugs prior to the product's commercial release. Games are usually almost finished at the beta stage. See also closed beta and open beta.

blacklist:
    In online games, a list of player information (such as player ID or IP address) that the server checks for when admitting a player. By default, players are allowed to enter, but if they match information on the blacklist, they are barred from entry. The opposite is a whitelist, where the server bars players by default but allows players matching the whitelist. Blacklists and whitelists can be used in tandem, barring even whitelisted players if they try to log in via a blacklisted IP address, for example.

blockstun:
    A period of time between a character blocking an attack and returning to their idle stance.See also hitstun.

BM:
    "Bad Manners"; conduct that is not considered 'cheating' but may be seen as unsportsmanlike or disrespectful. Some games may elect to punish badly behaved players by assessing game penalties, temporarily blocking them from re-entering play, or banishing them to a playing environment populated solely by other badly behaved players. What constitutes bad manners is subjective and may be hard to gather a consensus on.

boomer shooter:
    A first-person shooter designed to resemble older games in the genre such as Doom and Quake. The name is derived from the baby boomer generation, often shortened to simply boomer, which in turn is used to describe things that are old in general.

booster pack:
    A random assortment of cards in digital collectible card games that players can buy or earn to add to their deck. See also lootbox.

boosting:
    In online multiplayer games that include ranked competitive play, boosting is where a player with a low-ranked level has a more-skilled player use their account to improve the low-ranked character to higher levels, or other improvements and benefits for their account.

bonus stage:
    A special level in which the player has a chance to earn extra points or power-ups, often in the form of a mini-game. Compare with secret level.

borderless fullscreen windowed:
    An option featured in many modern PC games and moddable into others in which a game appears fullscreen but is actually running in a maximized window. Since the game does not take full control of the output device, it confers benefits such as seamless task switching and automatic vertical synchronization.

boss:
    A significantly powerful opponent non-player character and computer-controlled enemy in a video game that is typically much more difficult to defeat compared to normal enemies, often at the end of a level or a game.

bot:
    Short for robot. A non-playable character which is controlled by an artificial intelligence (AI). The player may compete against or work with a bot to complete objectives. Is also a derogatory term that implies a player is less effective than a computerized character.

bottomless pit:
    A hazard common in platform and action games, which consists of a deep hole or void with no visible bottom, presumably leading to a fatal drop. The player-character falling into this void typically results in an instant death (and the loss of a life) for the player, regardless of how much health the character had; although some games may instead take away a percentage of the character's health before respawning them nearby. Bottomless pits can also serve as obstacles that can be overcome by using abilities or finding alternate routes.

buff:
    1.  An effect placed on a video game character that beneficially increases one or more of their statistics or characteristics for a temporary period. Compare to debuff. 2.  A change intended to strengthen a particular item, tactic, ability, or character, ostensibly for balancing purposes. Compare to nerf.

Buildcrafting:
    The ability in games to define the player-characters abilities by selecting appropriate gear, equipment, and accessories to optimize and maximize the character's performance in the game. The end results, known as builds, then are frequently shared to other players through various means.

build order:
    Also build-order.An optimal sequence of player actions in a building-based strategy game, dictating what option should be constructed in what order.

bullet hell:
    A type of shoot 'em up where the player must generally dodge a large or overwhelming bombardment of projectiles.

bullet sponge:
    Any enemy that appears to require more firepower than would be considered realistic or reasonable to defeat. This is an allusion to how the enemy can absorb bullets much like a sponge absorbs liquids. For example, an enemy soldier in a first-person shooter that requires several full magazines of ammunition to defeat, in comparison to other soldier types that are defeated in a handful of shots, would be a bullet sponge.

bullshot:
    A portmanteau of bullshit and screenshot, referring to the misrepresentation of a final product's technical or artistic quality by artificially enhancing promotional images or video footage.

button mashing:
    1.  The pressing of different button combinations in rapid succession to perform or attempt to perform special moves, typically with little rhyme or reason. This technique is most often encountered in fighting games, especially among weaker players. 2.  The rapid pressing of a single button to accomplish a task, especially in minigames. Sometimes, this requires the rapid pressing of two buttons simultaneously, or rapidly pressing any button.

breach:
    Common name for the value that dictates how much stun a weapon deals.

campaign mode:
    Also story mode and campaign.A series of game levels intended to tell a linear story; some campaigns feature multiple 'paths', with the player's actions deciding which path the story will follow and affecting which choices are available to the player at a later point.

camping:
    1.  Where a player stays in one place – typically a fortified high-traffic location – for an extended period of time and waits to ambush other players. Many players consider camping a form of cheating or, at best, griefing. It is most common in first-person shooter games, but is also frequent in fighting games with projectile-heavy characters. 2.  The act of waiting around a rare mob or player's spawn point, usually in MMOs. This may be known as spawn-camping or spawn-trapping.

capture the flag (CTF):
    A common game mode in multiplayer video games, where the goal is to capture and retrieve a flag from the opposing side's territory while defending the flag in one's own territory.

career mode:
    A mode of gameplay that involves taking control of a single character and guiding the character through a structured career. The mode is commonly used in sports games, where it is referred to by various names such as "Be a Pro", "superstar mode", "My Player", and "Road to the Show", in which a player controls the career of a single athlete.

carry:
    In team-based video games, when a player disproportionately contributes to the success of their team. For example, Team A's sole remaining player defeating the rest of Team B, thus saving Team A from a close defeat, would be considered carrying, as would one player on Team A having the most kills among the rest of their team. The term is usually but not always interpreted as indirect slander towards the rest of the team, though the term may also be used generally. Carrying may also be a method experienced players use to win rounds when the rest of their team are less experienced or less efficient at completing tasks; this may entail taking on enemy combatants alone, or using teammates as a distraction while completing objectives for the round.

cartridge tilting:
    Deliberately inducing glitches and other strange behaviour in cartridge-based games by tilting the cartridge slightly in its slot in the console, enough for the connection to be altered but not completely severed. Cartridge tilting creates similar effects to using a corruptor, and may include such glitches as character models becoming distorted, extremely loud noises and in particularly severe cases, both the game and the console itself may crash.

casual gaming:
    Playing video games on an infrequent and spontaneous basis without a long-term commitment. Casual video games are distinguished by a low learning curve and ease of access, often web-based for mobile phones or personal computers. Most casual games have simplified controls, with one or two buttons dominating play. Casual games can normally be played in small periods of time, and may not have a save feature.

challenge mode:
    A game mode offered beyond the game's normal play mode that tasks the player(s) to replay parts of the game or special levels under specific conditions that are not normally present or required in the main game, such as finishing a level within a specific time, or using only one type of weapon. If a game doesn't feature a 'challenge mode', players will often create self-imposed challenges by forbidding or restricting the use of certain game mechanics.

character class:
    A job or profession that comes with a set of abilities as well as positive and negative attributes. Most common in role-playing games, a character's class helps to define their playstyle as well as the role the character plays in a team based game. Often as players gain experience with a class they learn new abilities related to their chosen profession and some games allow players to change their character's class or become proficient in multiple classes. Some examples of archetypal character classes include warrior (strength and defense), thief (speed and stealth), wizard (magic and intelligence), and priest or healer (healing and buffing allies). A popular example of a class-changing system is the Job System in the Final Fantasy series.

character creator:
    An ingame method to customize a character to the player's preferred appearance and abilities before starting the game, most commonly used in role-playing games.

character select screen:
    Also character select. A concept in games with multiple characters, a screen with names or pictures of all playable (and secret) characters with the possibility of stat listings.

charge shot:
    A shot that can be charged up so that a stronger attack can be dealt, but requiring more time. Usually performed by holding the shot button.

cheat:
    A game code that allows the player to beat the game or acquire benefits without earning them. Cheats are used by designers to test the game during development and are often left in the release version. See god mode, aimbot, ESP cheats, noclip mode, wallhack, and Konami Code.

cheating:
    To play the game unfairly; giving an unfair advantage via illegitimate means.

checkpoint:
    An area in a level from which the player will start the level from next time they die, rather than having to start the level over. Checkpoints typically remain in place until the player completes the level or gets a Game Over.

cheese (or cheesing):
    Cheese(ing) refers to a tactic in a video game that may be considered cheap, unfair, or overly easy, requiring no skill by others as to otherwise complete a difficult task. What may account as cheese depends on the type of game. Its origin traces back to players of Street Fighter II who would frequently use the same combo move over and over against to defeat their opponent. In multiplayer games like MOBAs or hero shooters, certain team compositions of heroes are considered cheese compositions for how easily they can defeat most other team compositions. In other games, cheese can refer to exploiting glitches and other bugs to make difficult gameplay sections easy.

cheevo:
    See achievement.

chiptune:
    Music composed for the microchip-based audio hardware of early home computers and gaming consoles. Due to the technical limitations of earlier video game hardware, chiptune came to define a style of its own, known for its "soaring flutelike melodies, buzzing square wave bass, rapid arpeggios, and noisy gated percussion".

choke:
    1.  When a player/team that is currently winning or expected to win a match performs unexpectedly poorly. 2.  A feature of a playable map that funnels players and might restrict mechanics like movement (chokepoint).

circle strafing:
    An advanced method of movement in many first-person shooter (FPS) games where the user utilizes both thumb sticks (console) or mouse and keyboard controls (PC) to maintain a constant circular motion around an enemy, while maintaining a relatively steady aim on that target. This practice minimizes incoming fire from the target's teammates, as any misses are likely to hit and harm their teammate.

clapped:
    Slang term for murdered, particularly in a 'clean' or belittling way, such as by a trickshot or a knife kill.

clan:
    Also guildAn organized group of players who regularly play multiplayer video games.

clicker game:
    A type of game where clicking (or tapping) the screen repeatedly is the only gameplay mechanic. See also idle game.

clipping:
    1.  Programming used to ensure that the player stays within the physical boundaries of the game world, bypassing collision detection. See also noclip, a cheat where clipping is disabled. 2.  A 3D graphics process which determines if an object is visible and "clips" any obscured parts before drawing it. See also clipping (computer graphics).

clock/clocked:
    To achieve a score so high it resets the in-game score counter back to 0, often used in older arcade games. More commonly used nowadays to express the (absolute) 100% completion of a game. Also see rolling the score.

clone:
    A game that is similar in design to another game in its genre (e.g., a Doom clone or a Grand Theft Auto clone). Sometimes used in a derogatory fashion to refer to an inferior 'ripoff' of a more successful title.

closed beta:
    A beta testing period where only specific people have access to the game.

cloud gaming:
    A cloud gaming server runs the game, receiving controller input actions from and streaming audio and video to the player's thin client.

cloud save:
    The player's saved game is stored at a remote server. This may provide a backup, or enable access from a different game system. See also cross-save.

clutch:
    Also clutching the game and coming in clutch.Being able to perform exceptionally well in a high-stakes situation, or have certain events occur at the right time in a very important or critical moment, in particular in a way that changes the outcome of the game; scoring a victory for your team when it was on the verge of defeat.

CMS:
    See also construction and management simulation.

coin-op:
    See also arcade game.

collectible:
    An item that can be collected by a player, which may or may not confer a positive benefit, such as increasing their character's maximum health. Typically found in games with a campaign mode, collectibles may increase such game's replay value by placing collectibles in areas that are hidden or can only be accessed with special abilities, encouraging the player to inquisitively comb through and revisit levels to find them all, as part of 100% completion.

collision detection:
    The computational task of detecting the intersection of two or more game objects.

combo:
    A series of attacks strung together in quick succession, typically while an opponent is in their "getting hit" animation from the previous attack and is helpless to defend themselves. Combos are a staple of fighting games, introduced in beat-'em-ups such as Renegade and Double Dragon, and becoming more dynamic in Final Fight and Street Fighter II.

competitive gaming:
    See electronic sports.

completionist:
    A particular kind of video game player who focuses on achieving 100% completion in the games they play.

compulsion loop:
    A cycle of gameplay elements designed to keep the player invested in the game, typically through a feedback system involving in-game rewards that open up more gameplay opportunities.

console:
    A video game hardware unit that typically connects to a video screen and controllers, along with other hardware. Unlike personal computers, a console typically has a fixed hardware configuration defined by its manufacturer and cannot be customized. Sometimes includes handheld consoles, to differentiate them from computers, arcade machines, and cell phones.

console generations:
    A set of video game consoles in direct competition for market share in a given era. The set, as a generation, is obsoleted at the introduction of the "next generation" or "next gen".

console wars:
    Refers to competition for video game console market dominance and, in specific, to the rivalry between Sega and Nintendo throughout most of the 1980s and 1990s. The analogy also extends to competition in later console generations, particularly the PlayStation and Xbox brands.

construction and management simulation (CMS):
    A video game genre that involves planning and managing a population of citizens in towns, cities, or other population centers. In such games, the player rarely has direct control of the computer-controlled citizens and can only influence them through planning.

content rating:
    Classifying video games according to suitability-related factors such as violent or sexual content contained within a game. Some countries use industry self-regulation models to accomplish this, while others have government rating boards. Certain content ratings result in products being legally or de facto banned from sale, such as the AO (adults only) rating in the United States. While legal, such titles are not stocked by retailers and will not be certified for release by major console makers such as Sony and Microsoft.

continue:
    The option to keep playing the game after all of the player's lives have been lost, rather than ending the game and restarting from the very beginning. There may or may not be a penalty for doing this, such as losing a certain number of points or being unable to access bonus stages. In arcade games, when a player loses or fails an objective, they will generally be shown a "continue countdown" screen, in which the player has a limited amount of time (usually 10, 15, or 20 seconds) to insert additional coins in order to continue the game from the point where it had ended; deciding not to continue will result in the displaying of a game over screen. The continue feature was added to arcade games in the early 1980s as a way to earn more money from players. The first arcade game to have a continue feature was Fantasy, and the first home console cartridge to have this feature was the Atari 2600 version of Vanguard. As a result of the continue feature, games started to have stories and definite endings; however, those games were designed so that it would be nearly impossible to get to the end of the game without continuing. Salen and Zimmerman argue that the continue feature in games such as Gauntlet was an outlet for conspicuous consumption. In more modern times, continues have also been used in a number of free-to-play games, especially mobile games, where the player is offered a chance to pay a certain amount of premium currency to continue after failing or losing. One example is Temple Run 2, where the price of a continue doubles after each failure, with an on-the-fly in-app purchase of the game's premium currency if required.

control point (CP):
    A game mode which involves the team capturing each required "capture point" in order to win the round or level.

control stick:
    See analog stick.

controller:
    A means of control over the console or computer on which the game is played. Specialized game controllers include the joystick, light gun, paddle, and trackball.

conversation tree:
    See dialog tree.

conversion kit:
    Special equipment that can be installed into an arcade machine that changes the current game it plays into another one. For example, a conversion kit can be used to reconfigure an arcade machine designed to play one game so that it would play its sequel or update instead, such as from Star Wars to The Empire Strikes Back, or from Street Fighter II: Champion Edition to Street Fighter II Turbo.

cooldown:
    The minimum length of time that the player needs to wait after using an ability before they can use it again. This is commonly done for game balance so less powerful abilities remain relevant.

co-op:
    See cooperative gameplay.

cooperative gameplay (co-op):
    Multiplayer gameplay where the players work together on the same team against computer-controlled opponents or challenges.

corruptor:
    A computer program used either as or in conjunction with an emulator to corrupt certain data within a ROM or ISO by a user-desired amount, causing varied effects, both visually and audibly, to a video game and its data, usually as a humorous diversion or for the sake of seeking out and documenting interesting examples, hereafter referred to as corruptions. The effects of a corruption may include: displaced or misdirected pixels in a spritemap; never-ending levels; bizarre or unexpected changes to the colour palette of characters and levels; artifacts; distorted or entirely incorrect sprites, polygons, textures, or character models; unpredictable and outlandish animations; incorrect text or dialogue trees; flickering graphics or lights; incorrect or distorted audio; inconvenient invisible walls; lack of collision detection; and other forced glitches. Corruptions often result in the game becoming unwinnable, and may also result in unusual crashes and softlocks. See also real-time corruptor and ROM hacking.

couch co-op:
    A local cooperative video game that is designed to be played by multiple players on the same display screen, using split-screen.

cover system:
    A game mechanic which allows the player to use walls or other features of the game's environment to take cover from oncoming ranged attacks, such as gunfire in first-person shooters. Many cover systems also allow the character to use ranged attacks in return while in cover although with an accuracy penalty.

coyote time:
    A game mechanic that grants players the ability to jump for a brief period of time (typically just a few frames or fractions of a second) after leaving solid ground. Used predominantly in platform games, the mechanic is designed to give players the impression of having jumped at the last possible moment, and as a method of forgiving players who would have otherwise missed the jump. The mechanic derives its name from the Looney Tunes character Wile E. Coyote who, upon leaving solid ground (e.g. by running off a cliff), briefly hangs in mid-air before plummeting to the earth below.

CPU:
    1.  Central processing unit; the part of the computer or video game which executes the games' program. 2.  A personal computer. 3.  A non-player character controlled by the game software using artificial intelligence, usually serving as an opponent to the player or players.

CPU versus CPU:
    See zero-player game.

cracked:
    1.  Software that has had its anti-piracy protections removed prior to being illegally distributed. See: Software cracking 2.  Being extremely good at something.

crafting:
    A game mechanic that allows the player-character to construct game items, such as armor, weapons or medicine from combinations of other items. Most MMOGs feature a crafting system.

cranking 90s:
    Commonly used in Fortnite, cranking 90s refers of a way to build in the game. "90s" refers to the 90-degree turn one must make when they make a 90, and "cranking" refers to how one must perform this repeatedly. "Cranking" 90s usually results in a tower being created.

credit-feeding:
    To complete an arcade game by using as many continues as possible. Prevalent in action games or shooters where the player is revived at the exact moment their character died during their previous credit. Some home conversions (such as AES versions of Neo Geo games) tend to limit the number of credits each player is allowed to use in a playthrough as a way of preserving the challenge, while other conversions (such as the ports in the Namco Museum series) impose no such limits in order to reproduce the original version as faithfully as possible. Compare with 1CC.

critical hit:
    Also crit.A type of strike that does more damage than usual. Normally a rare occurrence, this may indicate a special attack or a hit on the target's weak point.

cross-buy:
    Ownership of a game on multiple platforms granted through a single purchase.

cross-generation:
    A game released across multiple console generations.

cross-platform:
    See multiplatform.

cross-platform play:
    Multi-platform versions of the same online games may be played together.

cross-progression:
    Similar to cross-save, when multi-platform games may share the player's current account details, including earned and purchased items, via a server.

cross-save:
    Multi-platform games may share the player's current state via a server.

Crowd control:
    A technique used primarily in massively multiplayer online games to limit or control how many enemies are hostile to the players so they can be picked off more easily. Also see aggro.

CRPG:
    Abbreviation of computer role-playing game. It has the connotation of referring to "classic" games.

crunch:
    A controversial but common labor practice in the video game industry where game developers have to work compulsory overtime, often uncompensated, in order to meet deadlines.

CTF:
    See capture the flag.

cut-in:
    A phase within a character's super move where the game briefly pauses the character's attack and shows their face (or full body) before proceeding to complete the attack. In fighting games, this move can be blocked.

cutscene:
    Also cinematic.A game segment that exists solely to provide detail and exposition to the story. They are used extensively in MMOs and RPGs in order to progress the plot. Cutscenes are more likely to be generated by the in-game engine while cinematics are pre-recorded.

D-pad:
    Also control pad and directional pad.A 4-directional rocker button that allows the player to direct game action in eight different directions: up, down, left, right, and their diagonals. Invented by Gunpei Yokoi for the Game & Watch series of handheld consoles, Nintendo used the "directional pad" (or "cross-key" in Japan) for their Nintendo Entertainment System controller and it has been used on nearly every console controller since.

damage over time (DoT):
    An effect, such as poison or catching on fire, that reduces a player's health over the course of time or turns.

damage per minute (DPM):
    Used as a metric in some games to allow the player to determine their offensive power.

damage per second (DPS):
    1.  Used as a metric in some games to allow the player to determine their offensive power, particularly in games where the player's attacks are performed automatically when a target is in range. 2.  A character archetype in team or party-based games, specifically a character or class that is designed purely to deal as much damage as possible to enemies, as opposed to a tank or healer, who have other primary duties. Specific characters or classes may be considered "sub-types" of DPS, such as a "magic-DPS" as opposed to a "melee-DPS".

day one:
    Also day zero.The day of release for a video game; often accompanied by a 'day-one patch' to repair issues that could not be addressed in time for the game's distribution, or 'day-one DLC', where the developer offers content for a price. 'Day-one DLC' is often associated with on-disc DLC, where the content is already a part of the game's data, but the player must pay to access it.

day zero:
    Also day one.Before the day of release for a video game; often accompanied by a 'day-zero dlc' to allow early play time that users paid for the game before launch, or maybe extra cosmetics. or the purchaser gets things like the 'day-one DLC' on launch day, or some in game currency, where the developer offers content bundled in for buying the game "pre-launch". the 'Day-one DLC' is often associated with on-disc DLC, where the content is already a part of the game's data, but the player must pay to access it.

dead zone:
    1.  A region of the screen in video games in which the camera is controlled via free look where the mouse cursor can be positioned to lock the camera in place. Can be adjusted in some games. 2.  A deadzone setting for the analog stick that lets players configure how sensitive they want their analog sticks to be, popular in console FPS games, and in racing games where it appears as Steering Deadzone.

deathmatch:
    Also free-for-allA game mode in many shooter and real-time strategy games in which the objective is to kill as many other characters as possible until a time limit or kill limit is reached. Compare to last man standing.

Debug mode:
    A feature left in a game that the development team would use to test the game and check for bugs. There are many ways that they could have been implemented, such as a menu with selectable options, button combinations or a room with stuff useful for testing. Debug modes will tend to have many useful features for testing, such as being able to make the player invulnerable to damage, giving the tester every single weapon available, being able to warp to any part of the game as needed, being able to defeat any enemy in a single hit, and so on. There may also be the ability to modify the camera placement, such as for the purpose of taking screenshots to use for advertising purposes. Typically, these will be removed or hidden before the game is released to the public. Some games may leave them available to the player still, such as by making them be an unlockable option, or requiring a code to unlock it. In other cases, they may be entirely unavailable through normal gameplay and glitches or external hacking would be required to access them. This can also be referred to as a debug menu or a debug room.

Degrees of freedom:
    The number of vectors of player-character movement that the player has control over, which are often a criterion associated with the game's genre. Side-scrollers typically have 2-DoF: left/right (run along X-axis), and up/down (jump/fall along Y-axis). Top-down, isometric graphics-based, and 3D graphics-based games may have 3-DoF or 4-DoF: aim left/right (rotate around Z-axis), move left/right (strafe along X-axis) & move forward/backward (run along Y-axis), and move up/down (jump/fall/crouch along Z-axis). 3D flying games may have up to 6-DoF: movement along the X, Y, or Z axes as left/right (along X-axis), forward/backward (along Y-axis), and up/down (along Z-axis), and rotation around X, Y, or Z axes as pitch (around X-axis), roll (around Y-axis), and yaw (around Z-axis) In addition, special features of games may manipulate other dimensions not associated with the X, Y, & Z axes of 3D space as DoF, such as time, player state, macro-location (fast travel), map state, NPC visibility or other game parameters.

debuff:
    1.  The opposite of a buff, an effect placed on a character that negatively impacts their statistics and characteristics. Compare with nerf. 2.  Effects that nullify or cancel the effects of buffs.

demake:
    A type of video game remake for (or emulating the style of) older generation hardware.

destructible environment:
    A game level in which walls and other surfaces can be damaged and destroyed.

developer:
    The production company which makes a video game.

development hell:
    An unofficial, indefinite "waiting period" during which a project is effectively stalled and unable to proceed. Projects that enter development hell are often delayed by several years, but are not usually considered to be formally cancelled by the publisher.

devolution:
    The act of running games and applications from storage media not originally supported for this use. For example, external hard disk drives or USB flash drives can be used on consoles that only officially support running games and applications from CD or DVD disks. Usually can only be done in modded game consoles.

dialog tree:
    Also conversation tree.Found primarily in adventure games, a means of providing a menu of dialog choices to the player when interacting with a non-player character so as to learn more from that character, influence the character's actions, and otherwise progress the game's story. The tree nature comes from typically having multiple branching levels of questions and replies that can be explored.

dialog wheel:
    Like the dialog tree, it presents various dialog choices to players. However, the choices imply an emotional tone rather than showing the exact dialog that will be spoken.

difficulty:
    The level of difficulty that a player wishes to face while playing a game. At higher difficulty levels, the player usually faces stronger NPCs, limited resources, or tighter time-limits.

digital rights management (DRM):
    Software tools for copyright protection. Often criticized, particularly if the DRM tool is overly restrictive or badly-designed.

display mode:
    See attract mode.

DLC:
    See downloadable content.

dolphin:
    In free-to-play games, a user who occasionally spends real-world money on in-game items or spends a modest amount, but not enough to be considered a whale.

Doom clone:
    An early term for first-person shooters, based on gameplay that mimicked that from Doom.

double jump:
    The action, when game mechanics allow, of a game character being able to execute two successive jumps, the second jump occurring in mid-air without coming into contact with anything. The player must then typically touch the ground before being able to jump again.

down-but-not-out (DBNO):
    Also downedA term for near-death state, typically found in team battle royale games, in which a player becomes incapacitated instead of dying after losing health points. Players in this state can be revived by teammates as long as they still have health, and in certain games such as Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege, players can self-revive, or "self-rez".

downloadable content (DLC):
    Additional content for a video game that is acquired through a digital delivery system.

DPM:
    See damage per minute.

DPS:
    See damage per second.

draft:
    A game mode associated with collectible card games including digital variants. A draft mode enables a player to create a deck of cards in such games by selecting one card of a number of randomly selected cards at a time. The player then uses the completed deck to play in matches against other players or computer opponents until they meet a certain win or loss record. Draft games contrast with constructed deck games, where players draw on their personal collections of cards.

dragon kill points (DKP):
    A semi-formal score-keeping system used by guilds in massively multiplayer online games that is redeemed after killing bosses or completing other challenges.

drift:
    Also stick drift.A typical malfunction that affects the analog stick(s) of a gamepad, in which its neutral position is set somewhere on its fringe, instead of the central position that it default maintains when the analog stick is unmoved. This can cause undesired gameplay effects, such as causing a character to constantly move or the game camera to constantly be locked to one skewed angle while the analog stick(s) is/are unmoved, depending on which stick is affected or the game's controls.

DRM:
    See digital rights management.

drop rate:
    The probability of obtaining a particular item from a loot box or booster pack in certain video games, particularly in games with microtransactions.

drop-in, drop-out:
    A type of competitive or cooperative multiplayer game that enables a player to join the game at any time without waiting and leave without any penalty, and without affecting the game for other players.

Dummied out:
    Refers to content that existed in a game during development and is in the code, but is not actually present in typical gameplay. Lots of aspects in a game can be this, such as cutscenes, weapons, characters (playable or not), items, missions or levels. There are many reasons why content may be subject to this, like if it was too buggy, if it was too unbalanced, if it was never intended to be released (like a weapon that's overpowered on purpose so the developers can get through the story easily), copyright issues (such as if a license to use a copyrighted character expired), if programming it couldn't be finished in time (such as to meet a release date), or any other reason.

dungeon:
    See also levelIn an open world game such as an RPG, an enclosed area filled with complex puzzles to solve and hostile NPCs where the player is likely to come under attack. In this sense, it can be used to refer to literal "dungeons" or include any number of other places, such as caves, ships, forests, sewers or buildings. Dungeons may be maze-like or contain puzzles that the player must solve and often hide valuable items within to encourage player exploration.

dungeon crawl:
    A genre of video game that is based on exploring dungeons or similar setting, defeating monsters and collecting loot.

duping:
    Derived from the word "duplicating", the practice of using a bug to illegitimately create duplicates of unique items or currency in a persistent online game, such as an MMO. Duping can vastly destabilize a virtual economy or even the gameplay itself.

dynamic game difficulty balancing:
    The automatic change in parameters, scenarios, and behaviors in a video game in real-time, based on the player's ability, with the aim of avoiding player boredom or frustration.

dynamic music:
    See adaptive music.

early access:
    Also software testing and Software release life cycle.A development model where players are able to purchase and play a game as it currently stands, be it early in development or close to a full release. On the developer's end, early access allows them to gather player feedback and further the game's development with the money made from these sales. See also open beta.

Elo hell:
    The phenomenon of being stuck at a lower rank than is reflective of the player's true skill level in competitive video games that utilize the Elo rating system which may occur for various reasons, usually due to unbalanced matchmaking (where the player may happen to have teammate/s of inferior skill). Quite often, Elo hell is not real, and used as a scapegoat when gamers don't want to admit their flaws, or cannot find them. The term is quite frequent in games like Counter-Strike 2, where low-ranking players with high mechanical skill claim that they 'aught to be Global Elite' (the highest rank in the game), but fail to prepare for fights, manage their in-game money, or communicate strategies to their teammates.

emergent gameplay:
    Gameplay that develops as a result of player creativity, rather than the game's programmed structure. EVE Online is well-known for its emergent gameplay, which allows player-formed alliances to fight extended 'wars' over valuable territory and resources, or simply become 'space pirates' and prey on other player-operated vessels.

emulator:
    A software program that is designed to replicate the software and hardware of a video game console on more modern computers and other devices. Emulators typically include the ability to load software images of cartridges and other similar hardware-based game distribution methods from the earlier hardware generations, in addition to more-traditional software images.

end game:
    The gameplay of a given title at the climax of its storyline or campaign, and is followed by the postgame.

end game loop:
    The gameplay available in a massively multiplayer online game for characters that have completed all of the currently-available content. Repeatable content after the climax of the storyline or campaign.

endless mode:
    A game mode in which players are challenged to last as long as possible against a continuing threat with limited resources or player-character lives, with their performance ranked on how long they survive before succumbing to the threat (such as the death of the player-character) or on score. This mode is typically offered in games that otherwise have normal endings that can be reached, providing an additional challenge to the players once the main game is completed.

endless runner:
    Also infinite runner.A subgenre of platform game in which the player character runs for an infinite amount of time while avoiding obstacles. The player's objective is to reach a high score by surviving for as long as possible.

enemy:
    A non-player character that tries to harm the player.

energy:
    1.  A game mechanic using a character resource-pool which governs how often the character is allowed to use a special ability. 2.  How often a player is allowed to play a particular free-to-play game; energy can be replenished instantly with an in-app purchase, or replenished slowly by waiting and not playing the game. 3.  (Usually in futuristic games) The player's health.

engine:
    See game engine.

environmental storytelling:
    Story that is conveyed via the physical design or set dressing of a game's world, rather than cutscenes or dialogue.

ESP cheats (extra-sensory perception cheats):
    A package of multiple cheats. e.g., "distance ESP" shows the distance between the enemy and the player, "player ESP" makes enemies highly visible, and "weapon ESP" shows enemy weapons.

esports:
    Also electronic sports, e-sports, eSports, competitive gaming, cybersports and professional gaming.Organized competitions around competitive video games, often played for prize money and recognition.

experience point (XP, EXP):
    In games that feature the ability for the player-character to gain levels, such as role-playing video games, experience points are used to denote progress towards the next character level.

expansion pack  (Add-on):
    An addition to an existing role-playing game, tabletop game, video game or collectible card game. These add-ons usually add new game areas, weapons, objects, characters, or an extended storyline to an already-released game.

== F ==:
    Shorthand for an expression of sympathy when an unfortunate event occurs. The term originates from an internet meme based on a quicktime event from Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare. The expression is often used in a sarcastic or mocking manner.

face button:
    A usually circular button on the right side of a traditional gamepad that is pressed very frequently in normal gameplay. Modern gamepads usually have four arranged in a diamond formation.

fangame:
    A video game made by fans, based on one or more established video games. Retrogamers may clone early video games to take advantage of more advanced hardware and game engines.

farming:
    Repeating a battle, quest, or other part of a game in order to receive more or duplicates of specific reward items that can be gained through that battle or quest, such as experience points, game money, or specific reward items. Gold farming is a type of farming done for in-game currency. See grinding.

fast travel:
    Common in role-playing games, a means by which to have the player-character(s) teleport between already-discovered portions of the game's world without having to actually interactively move that distance.

fear of missing out (FOMO):
    A term used around ongoing games with rotating content, the "fear of missing out" is an expression related to the psychological and social anxiety effect for players concerned about missing the opportunity to obtain limited-time characters, items or events while they are available and thus devote more time and resources into the game as to obtain those items. This can include additional expenditures for microtransactions for free-to-play or freemium games.

feed:
    In MOBAs, to consistently die to an enemy team or player (either intentionally or due to inexperience), providing them with experience, gold, map pressure, or other advantages.

field of view (FOV):
    Also field of vision.A measurement reflecting how much of the game world is visible in a first-person perspective on the display screen, typically represented as an angle. May also refer to the general amount of the game world that is visible on the screen, typically in games where being able to see a lot at once is important, such as strategy games and platformers.

first-party developer:
    A developer that is either owned directly by a console maker or has special arrangements with the console maker; such developers have greater access to internal details about a console compared to traditional developers. A developer that isn't owned by a console maker but have special arrangements with them may be referred to as a second-party developer, instead. Games developed by a first-party developer are often referred to as 'first-party games.'

first-person:
    A graphical perspective rendered from the viewpoint of the player-character.

first-person shooter (FPS):
    A genre of video game where the player experiences the game from the first-person perspective, where the primary mechanic is the use of guns and other ranged weapons to defeat enemies.

flashing invulnerability:
    Also invincibility frames, invulnerability period, mercy invincibility. An invincibility or immunity to damage that occurs after the player takes damage for a short time, indicated by the player-character blinking or buffering.

flip-screen:
    A game environment divided into single-screen portions, similar to individual tiles in a maze. Players see only one such screen at a time, and they transfer between screens by moving the player-character to the current screen's edge. The picture then abruptly "flips" to the next screen, hence the technique's name. UK magazines also refer to this as flick-screen.

fog of war:
    Common in strategy games, a 'fog' covers unobservable areas of the map and hides any enemy units in that area.

foozle:
    The final boss in a game.

FotM:
    Acronym for "Flavor of the Month", referring to a new meta that emerges after an update making certain classes or builds more desirable, that will only last a short amount of time. The phrase originated in the World of Warcraft community, but is also used in MOBAs.

FOV:
    See field of view.

FPS:
    1.  An abbreviation for first-person shooter. 2.  An abbreviation for frames per second. See frame rate.

frag:
    To kill or achieve a kill in a game against a player or non-player opponent. See also gibs.

frame advantage:
    In fighting games, the difference (in frames) between how quickly the characters can perform another action after attacking or defending.

frame rate:
    A measure of the rendering speed of a video game's graphics, typically in frames per second (FPS).

frame-perfect:
    An action that must be performed within a single frame for perfect execution.

free look:
    1.  To be able to look around the map freely, usually limited by typical mechanics of the game such as the boundaries of the game world. This is usually an ability that is disabled to common users, but left in the game coding as a developer's tool and is unlockable if the proper code is known. May also be allowed by a non-player in a multiplayer game to allow seeing every player's progress, especially in e-sports. Typically eliminates fog of war in relevant games. 2.  Also called mouselook, a method of control where the player uses the computer mouse to indicate the direction they desire the player-character to look.

freemium:
    A pricing strategy by which a product or service (typically a digital offering or an application such as software, media, games or web services) is provided free of charge, but money (premium) is charged for additional features, services, or virtual (online) or physical (offline) goods.

free-to-play (F2P or FtP):
    Games that do not require purchase from a retailer, either physical or digital, to play. Highly prevalent on smartphones, free-to-play games may also provide additional gameplay-enhancing purchases via an in-app purchase. Games that require in-app purchases in order to remain competitive, or gamers who engage in said purchases, are known as pay to win (P2W). Compared to the P2W players, F2P players are often looked down upon. (Compare 'freemium', a free-to-play game that follows such a model.)

friendslop:
    An ironic term for cooperative multiplayer games, especially those following in the wake of Lethal Company, typically with minimal gameplay structure that can lead to chaotic and humorous interactions between the players and the game that often can go viral on social media sites. Coined after the rise of the term AI slop which inspired a social media meme where the "-slop" prefix is combined with a common game element, overly reducing a genre for comedic effect. Another example is "rollslop", as a moniker for Soulslikes. "Friendslop" has seen some use as a genuine term, in the absence of a genre descriptor for Lethal Company-inspired games.

full combo (FC):
    Also full perfect combo (FPC).A term used most commonly in rhythm games, when the player hits every note in a song with no mistakes, therefore never breaking a combo. Often results in the highest possible score on said song.

GaaS:
    See games as a service.

gacha game:
    A genre of video game that implements the gacha (toy vending machine) mechanic. Similar to loot boxes, gacha games induce players to spend in-game or real-world currency to receive random in-game items or characters. The gacha mechanic is considered integral to the gameplay or player progression of gacha games, whereas loot boxes would not change the gameplay of the games they're attached to in a significant way if they were removed or replaced with a different reward system.

gambling:
    Playing games of chance for real money or in-game currency. In video games, loot boxes are commonly associated with gambling.

game design:
    The use of design and aesthetics to create a game. Compare with video game design.

game engine:
    The codebase on which a game runs. There are different subsets of engines, such as specialized ones for physics and graphics. Often the game engine is only middleware which game specific behaviours are built upon, though end-users do not tend to make this distinction.

game jam:
    An event where participants try to develop a game from scratch in a very short amount of time, often with a theme determined by the organiser of the jam.

Game launcher:
    An application program for personal computers use to launch one or more games, rather than launching the game directly. Launchers typically include additional services from the software developer to provide middleware such as friends and matchmaking services, content updating, digital-rights management, and cloud saving. A game launcher may also provide features of a digital storefront to purchase and download games. Launchers include those designed by publishers specifically for their games, such as Battle.net or Ubisoft Connect, or may be a general platform to support first- and third-party games like Steam and the Epic Games Store.

game localization:
    See localization.

game mechanics:
    Also gameplay mechanics.An overarching term that describes how a particular game functions and what is possible within the game's environment; the rules of the game. Typical game mechanics include points, turns or lives. An unanticipated and novel use of game mechanics may lead to emergent gameplay.

game mode:
    Also gameplay mode.A distinct configuration that varies game mechanics and affects gameplay, such as a single-player mode vs a multiplayer mode, campaign mode, endless mode, or god mode.

game over:
    1.  The end of the game. 2.  The losing screen shown when a loss condition is met.

game port:
    When a game is ported from one platform to another. Cross-platform ports are often criticized for their quality, particularly if platform-specific design elements (such as input methods) are not updated for the target platform.

Games as a Product:
    Also Buy-to-play. A type of business model where games are bought and sold once as a finished product that receives few to no further content updates, as opposed to games as a service where games receive content updates in the long-term on a continuing revenue model.

Games as a Service (GaaS):
    Also Live Service Games. A type of business model where games receive content updates in the long-term on a continuing revenue model, as opposed to games as a product, where a game is bought and sold once as a finished product that receives few to no further content updates.

Game sense:
    Situational and environmental awareness in a game, and the decision-making based on this awareness.

game studies:
    A field of social sciences that attempts to quantify or predict human behavior in various game-based scenarios, often where there is a reward or risk in taking certain actions.

game world:
    The location in which a game's action takes place. May refer specifically to the game's environmental components, i.e., its constituent rooms, levels, worlds, and overworld, or more broadly also encompass the game's mechanics and setting.

gameplay:
    A player's interaction with a video game, defined through game rules, player-game interface, challenges, plot, and the player's connection with the game.

gamethrowing:
    Losing a game on purpose, or losing a game badly. Mostly used in competitive, team-based games.

gank:
    To use the element of surprise to flank and attack an enemy. More common in multiplayer games, where 'ganking' usually indicates an unwelcome attack on an unwilling or unsuspecting participant.

gating:
    Part of a game's design that regulates how new gameplay elements, levels, weapons, abilities, or the like are introduced to the player.

GG:
    Abbreviation meaning "good game". Typically exchanged as parting words at the end of a competitive game or match as a gesture of good sportsmanship. The variantions "GGWP" ("good game, well played") and "GF" ("good fight") are also occasionally used. Due to the near exclusive use of "GG" at the end of a game or match, it is sometimes said by spectators to denote a situation, action, or move which suggests that a particular player's or team's victory appears inevitable (e.g. "This attack just wiped all the blue player's forces, that's a GG"). It can also be used to taunt players while a game is still in progress as an implication that their win is assured. Insulting variations, such as "GGEZ" ("good game, easy") can similarly be used to imply the opposing player is unskilled.

ghost:
    A feature included in time attack or time trial modes in video games allowing the player to review their previous rounds. In racing games, for example, a "ghost car" may follow the last or fastest path a player took around the track. In fighting games, the ghost is an opponent that the computer AI player can train against outside of normal player versus player or story mode. Ghost cars in racing games generally appear as translucent or flashing versions of the player's vehicle. Based on previously recorded lap times, they serve only to represent the fastest lap time and do not interact dynamically with other competitors. A skilled player will use the ghost to improve their time, matching the ghost's racing line as it travels the course. Many racing games, including Gran Turismo, F-Zero, and Mario Kart offer a ghost function. Some also have ghosts set by staff members and developers, often showing perfect routes and lap times. A variation of the feature, dubbed by Firemonkeys Studios as "Time-Shifted Multiplayer", was implemented in the mobile racing game Real Racing 3. It works by recording the lap times of players in each race, and uses statistics from other players to recreate their lap times for the player to beat. These ghost cars can collide with the player and other vehicles, and are fully visible to the player. In some rhythm games, such as the Elite Beat Agents and Moero! Nekketsu Rhythm Damashii Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan 2, saved replay data can be used in one of the player slots in a multiplayer game.

gibs:
    Or "giblets", gore and body chunks which fly from a game opponent when hit with such force that they rupture.

gimp:
    1.  A character, character class, or character ability that is sufficiently underpowered to making using the gimp a severe handicap in the context of the game. 2.  A design choice that has this effect. 3.  In multiplayer games, killing a character much earlier than would be expected, such as by relentlessly pursuing them until they die in the early game.

Git gud:
    Slang rendering of "get good", often used to dismiss complaints about difficulty, especially within the soulslike genre, by implying the addressee has not yet learned the game's mechanics. While it can be used in a positive and encouraging manner, it has been accused of fostering patronization or hostility towards non-gamers when used to insult struggling players.

glass cannon:
    A character with abilities or equipment aimed at maximizing its damage output to the detriment of its damage mitigation. Common in MMORPGs.

GLHF:
    Abbreviation meaning "good luck, have fun". Used as words exchanged at the beginning of a competitive game or match as a gesture of good sportsmanship.

GOAT:
    Also goated.Acronym for Greatest Of All Time.

GOTY:
    Acronym for Game Of The Year, a game award given out annually by events and media publications to the games that they consider the best of that particular year. Game of the Year-awards are often divided in subcategories and an overall winner.

Also: infinite health, infinite life, invincibility, invulnerability:
    A cheat that makes player-characters invulnerable. Occasionally adds invincibility, where the player can hurt enemies by touching them (e.g., the Super Mario Super Star). The effect may be temporary. See flashing invulnerability.

god roll:
    In games that generate randomized loot, the "god roll" is loot that has the subjectively best selection of possible random attributes such as perks and bonuses that could be generated for that particular piece of equipment.

gold sink:
    In-game activities that receive currency (gold) from players; in online multiplayer games, this functionally reduces the overall money supply

gone gold:
    The point in the software-development cycle where the software is considered final and ready to be shipped. The term traditionally related to the production of games on CD-ROM, where the final version of the game, the master copy, would be written to a gold film-based writable CD and sent to be replicated for retail.

graphic content filter:
    A setting that controls whether the game displays graphic violence.

grappler:
    A fighting game character who primarily uses grabbing and throwing attacks.

griefer:
    A player in a multiplayer video game who deliberately irritates and harasses other players within the game, such as camping spawn points. Griefers typically use actions permitted in-game; griefers who do not use intended or permitted actions are usually cheating or hacking. Many online multiplayer games enforce rules that forbid griefing.

grinding:
    Performing a repetitive and time-consuming action in a video game before being able to advance. Prevalent in online games, where it is alternately considered an annoying waste of time or an enjoyable necessity, depending on the player's attitude. Many online games have taken steps to reduce the 'grind', including doing away with traditional 'leveling' systems or allowing the player to temporarily 'boost' themselves to match the difficulty of NPCs in a given area.

Hack vs Hack:
    Hack vs Hack (HvH) refers to using cheats to compete against other players using cheats.

handheld console:
    A portable gaming console; i.e. one that is not connected to a TV or other peripheral device. Nintendo's Game Boy is the most recognizable example.

hate:
    A mechanism by which non-player characters prioritize which player(s) to attack. See aggro.

head bob:
    In first-person view games, the up-and-down (and sometimes left-and-right) motion of the player's camera to simulate the bobbing of the player-character's head when walking or running. It is often an option that can be disabled as it may induce motion sickness in players.

headshot:
    An attack that strikes the head of its target, causing extra (often fatal) damage. See critical hit.

head swap:
    An animation technique in which a new head is put on an existing character model, to save memory or animation effort.

heal over time (HoT):
    An effect that restores health over a period of time; antonym of DoT.

health:
    Also hit points (HP).An attribute showing how much damage a character can sustain before being incapacitated. Getting hurt lowers this meter and if it reaches zero that character can no longer continue. Depending on the game this can mean many different things (i.e. death, serious injury, knockout, or exhaustion).

heat map:
    In video games, an overhead representation of a game level showing, through background game data collection, a statistic such as where player characters died or which route players took the most. Brighter spots or highly concentrated areas show where these events occurred the most. Such maps may be used by developers to help refine map design.

hero ban:
    In multi-player game genres that feature unique hero characters, like MOBAs and hero shooters, a mechanism that bans the selection of certain heroes. This may be set by the game developer on a schedule, or a per-game voting mechanism by players.

hidden object game:
    A subgenre of puzzle video games in which the player must find items from a list that are hidden within a scene.

high score:
    Also hi-score.The highest logged score in a video game. See also leaderboard.

hit marker:
    Also damage ring.A visual effect that occurs every time the player-character lands a hit on the opponent; commonly seen in first-person shooter games like Call of Duty.

hitbox:
    1.  The area or areas that can inflict damage or other effects to a character (usually not the one which created the hitbox). 2.  See hurtbox.

hitscan:
    Commonly seen in first-person shooters, hitscan is used to determine hits along a path with no travel time. Some games use this technique to detect hits with firearms in contrast to physics-based projectiles which have noticeable travel time.

hitstun:
    In fighting games, a short period of time during which one character is unable to move after being hit by another character's attack.

HOPA:
    Acronym for Hidden Object Puzzle Adventure. See hidden object game.

horde mode:
    See survival mode.

hurtbox:
    The area describing precisely where the game will register any hits on a game target. The term hitbox is sometimes used as another term for this when the distinction between hitbox and hurtbox is unimportant.

idle animation:
    An animation that occurs when the player character is not performing any actions.

idle game:
    A type of game where player progression happens without the player's input, and often even while the game is closed. See also clicker game.

iframes:
    Also i-frames.See invincibility frames.

in-app purchase (IAP):
    A microtransaction in a mobile game (or regular app), usually for virtual goods in free or cheap games.

indie game:
    Also independent video game. Loosely defined as a game made by a single person or a small studio without any financial, development, marketing, or distribution support from a large publisher, though there are exceptions.

infinite runner:
    See endless runner.

influencer:
    A video game player or social media personality that is used as part of a game's promotion. Typically the influencer will be given a pre-release copy of a game to play and review to those people that follow them on social media or streaming sites, with the intent that those subscribers will be influenced to buy the game.

item level:
    A number attached to a game item – e.g.: weapon, armor, or clothing – which roughly indicates the item's power, commonly seen in MMORPGs. A character who does not meet the required level of the item would be unable to equip it.

interface:
    Also heads-up display (HUD).Graphic elements that communicate information to the player and aid interaction with the game, such as health bars, ammo meters, and maps.

inting:
    Intentionally feeding.

inventory:
    A menu or area of the screen where items collected by the player-character during the game can be selected. This interface allows the player to retrieve single-use items for an instant effect or to equip the player-character with the item.

inventory management:
    Preparations a player makes with their character's inventory, such as storing or retrieving items, repairing weapons, etc. Failure to manage an inventory properly may result in losing rare items or being less powerful in combat. Common in hardcore games with limited resources like RPGs and survival horror, while uncommon in more casual titles, which may have an infinite inventory or manage it automatically.

invincibility frames:
    A brief period of time where a player can't take damage from attacks. Invincibility frames are most commonly triggered by a player action (such as dodging or rolling), by taking damage or as a short period of safety after respawning. See also flashing invulnerability.

invisible wall:
    An obstruction in a video game that halts movement in a specific direction, even though terrain and features can be seen beyond the boundary.

joke character:
    A character included in a game for humorous reasons, such as having weak stats or an atypical appearance or personality. They may also function as an additional challenge or handicap for skilled players.

johning:
    The action of making excuses for losing (eg. Poor connection or joystick drift) other variants include pre-johning.

joystick:
    An input device consisting of a stick that pivots on a base and reports its angle or direction to the device it is controlling. Modern gaming joysticks have several buttons and may include a thumb-operated analog stick on top.

JRPG:
    Japanese role-playing video game, typically referring to a subgenre of RPGs that originate from Japan.

juggernaut:
    Refers to a game mode where many players face one overpowered enemy (called the Juggernaut) and try to defeat it. The player who kills it often becomes the next Juggernaut.

kick:
    In online games, the ability of the server or the host of a game to remove a player from the server, thereby ‘kicking’ them out of the game. This can be to prevent undesirable player behavior such as griefing (where it is usually a precursory measure to banning); to reduce issues like lag, where one player's lag problems may affect other players’ enjoyment of the game; or to prevent server crashes when communication errors occur between the server and client.

kill–death ratio (K/D ratio or KDR):
    A statistic typically found in player-versus-player video games, gauging the ratio between the number of opponents the player defeated and the number of deaths the player suffered at the hands of opponents. More skilled players typically have higher kill–death ratios.

KDA:
    Abbreviation of Kills Deaths Assists, a ratio used by MOBA players to evaluate their in-game performance. Used in a similar manner to the kill–death ratio.

kill farming:
    When players are stationed near their opponent's spawn point and kill them the moment they respawn.

kill feed:
    In multiplayer games, a portion of the game's user interface that shows the last few events (generally, when other players are killed) from the last few seconds, like a news feed.

kill screen:
    A stage or level in a video game (often an arcade game) that stops the player's progress due to a software bug. Not to be mistaken for a game over screen, kill screens can result in unpredictable gameplay and bizarre glitches.

kill stealing:
    Defeating an enemy that someone else was about to defeat, usually to receive the reward or credit without doing most of the work. Considered 'bad form' in many online communities.

King of the Hill (KOTH):
    A game mode where opposing teams try to occupy a single point on the map for a certain amount of time, or for as long as possible until the end of the match.

kit:
    The set of skills and abilities given to a pre-defined playable character in games featuring many such characters to choose from, such as many MOBAs or hero shooters.

kiting:
    1.  A maneuver in which a player-character gets an enemy NPC to chase after them so as to lead them somewhere else (like a kite on a string). This can be used to separate groups of enemies to prevent the player from becoming overwhelmed or in team-based or cooperative games to allow the player's teammates to attack the opponent, or to lure the opponent into a trap.

knock-back:
    A game mechanic in many types of games where a character is thrown backwards from the force of an attack. During knock-back, the character is unable to change their direction until a short recovery animation is finished. Knock-back sometimes results in falling down pits if the character is standing close to the edge when hit with a knock-back attack.

Konami Code:
    A fixed series of controller button presses used across numerous Konami games to unlock special cheats (such as gaining a large number of lives in Contra), and subsequently used by other developers to enable cheats or added functions in these games. The term applies to variations on this sequence but nearly all begin with "up up down down left right left right".

lag:
    In video games, an unintentional or unexpected delay between the start and end of a process, usually to a detrimental effect on gameplay. Lag can occur in any of the many different processes in a video game, to vastly differing effects depending on the source: Frame lag: A direct delay in the rate at which a frame is processed. This is usually the result of having too many objects active at once - the physics, rendering and other processes of which must each be calculated on every frame. In turn, this results in choppy movement, and depending on how the code is handled, either slowed gameplay compared to real-time (when the lag is not accounted for) or a loss of player control precision (when it is accounted for). In multiplayer games, this is often called client-side lag, as opposed to server-side lag. Rendering lag: A delay in the rate at which an otherwise-processed frame is rendered, usually due to a very large number of polygons or visual effects on screen at once. This can have similar visual effects as frame lag, but can alternatively result in frames being rendered incompletely - missing visual details, textures, particle effects or occasionally entire objects. Occasionally, a similar effect can be seen with layered audio cues. Server-side lag: A delay appearing only in online multiplayer games, between the client (the player's device) or the server sending information across the internet, and the counterpart receiving said information. This rarely looks like frame lag or rendering lag, and can instead cause a variety of effects such as dropped player inputs, desynchronisation between the player and server's versions of events, rubber-banding (where entities appear to ‘snap’ between different positions), or in worst-case scenarios, the player being removed from the server entirely, or kicked.

laner:
    A player role in MOBA games that focuses on one of the typically three lanes on the map.

LAN party:
    A gathering of people who play multiplayer games together over a local network, often bringing their own computers or game systems with them. LAN is an acronym for Local Area Network.

last hitting:
    The action of getting the killing blow on an NPC, receiving gold and experience points that would have been reduced or awarded to someone else. MOBA games, such as League of Legends and Dota 2 use this term and most other games use "kill stealing".

last man standing:
    A multiplayer deathmatch mode in which the objective is not to achieve the most kills but to survive the longest, or alternatively to have the fewest character deaths in a given period of time.

launch game:
    A game released simultaneously with its respective platform, or during its near-term launch window.

leaderboard:
    A list or table logging the highest scores achieved in a particular game. See also high score.

Let's Play (LP):
    A type of video game walkthrough done by players, through screenshots or video, where the player provides commentary about the game as they work through it.

level:
    1.  A location in a game. Also area, map, stage, dungeon. Several levels may be grouped into a world. Some games include special bonus stages or secret levels. 2.  A character's experience level in a role-playing game, which increases through playing the game to train a character's abilities. It serves as a rough indicator of that character's overall proficiency. 3.  A round or wave in a single-location game with increasing difficulty. See also difficulty level, item level, wanted level.

level editor:
    A program, either provided within the game software or as separate software product, that allows players to place objects or create new levels for a video game.

level scaling:
    A game mechanic in games where the player advances in level, which alters the attributes of a player character or opponents so that there is a similar challenge in combat. If the player character is several levels higher, either the enemy would be buffed or the player's abilities nerfed so that the challenge would be similar. The player would still gain added benefits with higher levels, such as additional abilities, better equipment with unique properties, and access to higher-level quests or areas. Examples of games with level scaling include World of Warcraft and Destiny.

LFG:
    Abbreviation of Looking For Group. Used by players looking to team up with others, the acronym is usually accompanied by a set of criteria or a player's specs.

LFM:
    Abbreviation of Looking For More. Used by players who have an incomplete team and are looking for players to fill the remaining spots, the acronym is usually accompanied by a set of criteria (such as a level or class requirement).

life:
    One of multiple chances that a player has to retry a task after failing. Losing all of one's lives is usually a loss condition and may force the player to start over. It is common in action games for the player-character to have multiple lives and chances to earn more during the game. This way, a player can recover from making a disastrous mistake. Role-playing games and adventure games usually give the player only one life, but allow them to reload a saved game if they fail. A life may similarly be defined as the period between the start and end of play for any character, from creation to destruction.

lifesteal (or "life steal"):
    The ability of a character in game to steal the HP of an opponent, typically by attacking.

light gun:
    A specialized type of game controller that the player points at their television screen or monitor to interact with the game.

live service games:
    See Games as a service.

loadout:
    A specific set of in-game equipment, abilities, power-ups, and other items that a player sets for their character prior to the start of a game's match, round, or mission. Games that feature such loadouts typically allow players to store, recall, and adjust two or more loadouts so they can switch between them quickly.

lobby:
    An in-game area or menu in which players connect, congregate and/or plan before entering the game proper, for instance before beginning a match or embarking on a raid.

localization:
    During publishing, the process of editing a game for audiences in another region or country, primarily by translating the text and dialog of a video game. Localization can also involve changing content of the game to reflect different cultural values and censoring material that is against local law, or in some cases self-censoring in an effort to obtain a more commercially favorable content rating.

longplay:
    A recorded playthrough of a game from the beginning to the end without any interruptions or commentary, often made as video walkthrough guides in case players get stuck on some parts of the game. Compare with Let's Play.

local co-op:
    See couch co-op.

local multiplayer:
    A multiplayer game that can be played over a local network, such as LAN or WLAN, without needing to be connected to the wider internet.

loot box:
    Loot boxes (and other name variants, such as booster packs for online collectible card games) are awarded to players for completing a match, gaining an experience level, or other in-game achievement. The box contains random items, typically cosmetic-only but may include gameplay-impacting items, often awarded based on a rarity system. In many cases, additional loot boxes can be obtained through microtransactions.

loot system:
    Methods used in multiplayer games to distribute treasure among cooperating players for finishing a quest. While early MMOs distributed loot on a 'first come, first served' basis, it was quickly discovered that such a system was easily abused, and later games instead used a 'need-or-greed' system, in which the participating players roll virtual dice, and the loot is distributed according to the results.

low%:
    Finishing or completing the end objectives of the game while having the lowest possible score/using the least number of items.

LTE:
    Abbreviation for Limited Time Event. An event that requires players to complete a set of goals within a deadline to obtain a reward. Prizes often range from exclusive characters and skins, to items and currencies. Some games allow for goals to be skipped using premium currency. LTEs are most commonly found in gacha games.

macro:
    1.  The handling of larger scale decisions, primarily in real-time strategy games. See also micro. 2.  An usermade algorithm made-up of series of different actions such as spells or abilities made in order to save the player time and gain an advantage in PvP or just quickly shout certain cliché phrases, especially popular in MMORPGs.

magic:
    Any of a variety of game mechanics to render fantastical or otherwise unnatural effects, though accessories (scrolls, potions, artifacts) or a pool of resources inherent to the character (mana, magic points, etc).

main:
    To focus on playing a certain character in a game, sometimes exclusively.

main quest:
    A chain of quests that compose a game's storyline which must be completed to finish the game. In comparison, side quests offer rewards but don't advance the main quest.

mana:
    Also magic points.A pool of resources inherent to a character that determines the amount of magical abilities they are able to use.

masocore:
    A portmanteau of masochist and hardcore, referring to a genre of punishingly difficult games, particularly the Dark Souls series and related Soulslikes as well as indie games such as I Wanna Be the Guy and Super Meat Boy. The genre is popular among hardcore gamers. See also Nintendo hard.

massively multiplayer online game (MMO):
    A game that involves a large community of players co-existing in an online world, in cooperation or competition with one another.

massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG):
    An MMO that incorporates traditional role-playing game mechanics. Games such as EverQuest and Dark Age of Camelot were progenitors of the genre. The most popular and most well-known game of this type is World of Warcraft.

match-3 game:
    A popular subgenre of the tile-matching video game genre, where the number of tiles matches a player must make is three. Well-known match-3 games include Bejeweled and Candy Crush Saga.

matchmaking:
    A game system that automatically sorts players with similar playing styles, desires, objectives, or skill levels into a team or a group. In competitive games or modes, a matchmaking rating (MMR) is a number assigned to each player based on skill and is the basis for matching players. This rating goes up or down based on individual or team performance.

maxed out:
    1.  Reaching the maximum level that a character (or in some cases, a weapon or other game item) can have. 2.  Raising a character's statistics to the maximum value. 3.  In real-time strategy games, recruiting units until the maximum number is reached.

meta:
    A common slang term for metagame or dominant strategy. Clipping of metagame. See also cheese.

metagame:
    1.  In games that encourage repeated playthroughs and match-based multiplayer games, the gameplay elements that are typically not part of the main game but can be invoked by the player to alter future playthroughs of the main game. 2.  A dominant strategy or set of strategies, often in the context of a competitive game.

metastory:
    The sum total of all known or implied stories of every character in the game, every branching storyline, and all potential outcomes and backstory.

Metroidbrainia:
    A genre of games, where progress is limited by the player's current comprehension of the game world, rather than in-game ability. Where revisiting previous areas re-contextualizes perceived physical barriers into puzzles and riddles to be solved.

Metroidvania:
    A genre of exploration-focused games, usually featuring a large, interconnected world. Access to certain areas and defeating certain enemies requires items found elsewhere, necessitating exploration and defeating enemies to obtain them. These games are usually side-scrolling platformers or viewed from the top-down, although they can be found in 3D as well. Many borrow features from Roguelike games, such as permanent death. Named for two pioneers of the genre, the Metroid and Castlevania series.

micro:
    The handling of detailed gameplay elements by the player. See also macro.

microtransaction:
    A business model used in games where players can purchase virtual goods via micropayments. Usually disliked by players, especially when the purchasable goods give players an advantage over players who did not purchase the goods. See also in-app purchase.

minimap:
    A smaller version of the play area, typically displayed in the corner of a players screen used for navigating the game world. May also display locations of friendly or enemy players. See also Radar.

min-maxing:
    1.  The practice of playing a role-playing game, wargame or video game with the intent of creating the "best" character by means of minimizing undesired or unimportant traits and maximizing desired ones. This is usually accomplished by improving one specific trait or ability (or a set of traits/abilities) by sacrificing ability in all other fields. This is easier to accomplish in games where attributes are generated from a certain number of points rather than in ones where they are randomly generated. 2.  Playing the meta, at possible detriment to the story or enjoyment of the game. Colloquialism.

minigame:
    A 'game-within-a-game', often provided as a diversion from the game's plot. Minigames are usually one-screen affairs with limited replay value, though some games have provided an entire commercial release as a 'mini-game' within the primary game-world. See also bonus stage, secret level and game mode.

mission:
    See level and quest.

MMO:
    See massively multiplayer online game.

MMORPG:
    See massively multiplayer online role-playing game.

MMR:
    See matchmaking.

mob:
    An in-game enemy that roams a specific area. Abbreviation of "mobile", it was first used in text-based online games in reference to non-player characters.

MOBA:
    See multiplayer online battle arena.

mod:
    A third-party addition or alteration to a game. Mods may take the form of new character skins, altered game mechanics or the creation of a new story or an entirely new game-world. Some games (such as Fallout 4 and Skyrim) provide tools to create game mods, while other games that don't officially support game modifications can be altered or extended with the use of third-party tools.

mode:
    1.  Technical or non-play modes for the hardware or software of a video game, such as a diagnostic or configuration mode, video or sound test, or the attract mode of arcade games. 2.  Gameplay modes which affect the game mechanics. See game mode.

modpack:
    A collection of mods devised to work together to achieve an enhanced or redefined gameplay experience. Modpacks can come in varying dedicated categories depending on the game they're based on, with more universal examples being modpacks tailored towards general content addition or performance enhancement.

monetization:
    A broad term referring to various methods game developers and publishers have to make money off of their games.

money hat:
    A practice in which a console manufacturer pays a third-party developer to make a game a console exclusive.

motion blur:
    A post-processing effect that emphasizes movement and speed by adding a blur effect to the game camera.

motion control:
    A game system that requires physical movement by the player to control player character actions. Popularized by the Wii, motion control is available on most recent console and handheld systems.

mount:
    Any creature or vehicle the player can use to traverse or use in combat. The arcade game Joust was the first to feature mounts, specifically of an ostrich and a stork.

MP:
    1.  Abbreviation of magic points. 2.  Abbreviation of multiplayer.

MUD:
    Also multi-user domain, multi-user dungeon.A multiplayer real-time virtual world, usually text-based.

mudflation:
    An online game virtual economy phenomenon in which endgame players become rich in currency and drive down the cost of rare items.

multi-load games:
    Games, typically from the 1980s, that would only load one portion of the game into memory at a time. This technique let developers make each in-memory portion of the game more complex.

multiplatform:
    Also cross-platform.A game which can be played on multiple platforms.

multiplayer:
    A game that allows multiple players to play at once.

multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA):
    A genre of video game popularized by Defense of the Ancients that pits teams of players to defend their home base from enemy onslaughts.

multiple character control:
    A feature of role-playing video games where the player controls multiple characters in real-time. The PlayStation 2 was first with this feature in the Summoner and Dynasty Warriors series.

multiple endings:
    When a game's story has multiple final outcomes, as compared to a linear story which typically ends with the defeat of the game's final boss. Players may have to meet certain requirements in order to view each ending.

multiplier:
    1.  In games with a scoring system, a gameplay element that increases the value of the points earned by the given multiplier value while the multiplier is active. A common feature of most pinball tables. 2.  Refers to the specific factor which changes a playable character or enemy's attributes, either inherently or due to a temporary buff or debuff.

nerf:
    A change, usually a patch, intended to weaken a particular item, tactic, ability, or character, ostensibly for balancing purposes. Contrast with buff.

New Game Plus (NG+):
    An option to play through an already-completed game's story again, carrying over characters, attributes, or equipment from a prior playthrough.

newbie (newb):
    Someone new to the game, generally used as a pejorative, although often light-heartedly. Not as pejorative as noob.

noclip mode:
    A cheat that allows players to pass through normally impenetrable objects – walls, ceilings, and floors – by disabling clipping.

no johns:
    A term meaning "no excuses", generally used when a player proclaims false or exaggerated reasons for not playing well. Originates from the competitive Super Smash Bros. Melee community.

non-player character (NPC):
    Also CPU. Abbreviation of non-player character or non-playable character, is a computer-controlled character or any character that is not under a player's direct control.

noob:
    A pejorative used to insult a player who is making mistakes that an experienced player would be expected to avoid. Sometimes spelled as n00b. See newbie.

no-scope:
    When a player uses a sniper rifle to achieve a kill without using its scope. Considered skillful, especially at range, as hipfired weapons usually have poor accuracy. Similar to quickscoping.

note highway:
    A visual element of most rhythm games that show the notes the player must match as they scroll along the screen. This is more commonly considered a "highway" when the notes scroll down the screen on a perspective-based grid, making it appear as a road highway.

nt:
    Meaning "Nice try". Generally said through a chat function in online multiplayer games to boost the morale of players. Can be directed towards both the friendly and enemy teams. Used when teammates or opponents fail after trying something new, or put in large amounts of effort towards the objective to no avail. "Nice try" could also be used in a condescending manner to mock opponents.

nuke:
    A spell or skill that is capable of dealing a large amount of damage to its target. Also in the context of video games, "nuking" may also describe the act of using a nuclear weapon while playing the game, such as the atomic bomb in Call of Duty games. In an MMORPG, nuking may differ in meaning between different communities. For example, to some individuals, to "nuke" is to deal the most possible damage to the most enemies possible (almost exclusively by means of an area of effect skill), whereas other individuals use the term by referring to the highest possible damage to a single target in the shortest amount of time, also known as a spike. Some individuals believe that the player, or players, nuking must do so by means of ranged combat (that is, out of melee range); others make no such distinction. It can also mean to critical hit often or just to deal high standard damage. In a real-time or turn-based strategy game, the term "nuke" has one distinct use. It can describe the tactic of attacking an opponent's specific (often high-priority) units with high-damage spells in order to kill them or force (or strongly encourage) the opposing player to remove them from battle. Such usage is common in Warcraft III, in which "Heroes" are frequently the targets and attackers due to their relative high priority and common faculty for high-damaging spells.

oddball:
    A game mode in the Halo series and a few other first-person shooters, where players on opposing teams attempt to capture and then hold on to a ball for as long as possible, while the opposing team tries to eliminate the player holding the ball in an attempt to get it back.

old-school gaming:
    See retrogaming.

on-disc DLC:
    Content that is on the physical media (usually a disc) of a game, but cannot be accessed without buying the content separately. Usually day-one DLC is assumed to be this, but not always. This term also includes data which is downloaded with a downloadable game but not accessible without payment. Not used for free-to-play or freemium games.

on rails:
    A term that refers to gameplay in which the player can only progress in one direction with limited exploration or branching, similar to a dark ride at theme parks. While this is expected in certain genres, like rail shooters, it may be criticized in genres that normally allow for more exploration.

one-shot:
    1.  To eliminate within a very short time frame, usually with only one shot or ability. 2.  When an enemy is low on health and one shot away from elimination.

one-trick:
    When a player continually chooses to play as a specific character in a wide roster and often refuses to switch.

online game:
    A game where part of the game engine is on a server and requires an Internet connection. Many multiplayer games support online play.

open beta:
    The opposite of a closed beta; the test players are not bound by non-disclosure agreements and are free to show the game to others. See also early access.

open world:
    A game world where the player has much greater freedom in choosing the order that they visit areas within the world, rather than being restricted to a pre-defined or heavily constricted order of visiting areas. While 'open world' and 'sandbox' are sometimes used interchangeably, the terms refer to different concepts and are not synonymous.

OTP:
    Abbreviation of one-trick pony, often used pejoratively, but can also be used boastfully if the person can consistently carry their team.

Overextend:
    When a player or group of players are moving or moved far into the map where it could be the enemy's territory where they will be most likely outnumbered and destroyed.

overpowered (OP):
    A character, item, ability or other effect that is too powerful, disrupting game balance. Often a controversial term.

overwatch:
    In turn-based tactics games, a character ends their turn and fires upon any enemies who enter their line of sight, providing covering fire for other characters.

overworld:
    1.  In open world games such as RPGs, an area that serves to connect other areas of the game world. 2.  In platform games, levels that are considered above-ground, in contrast to cave-like levels which are referred to as underworlds.

pacifist run:
    An attempt to reach the ending of a game while defeating as few enemies as possible, often exploiting various bugs and glitches.

pack-in game:
    A game that is included with the purchase of a video game console as a form of product bundling. See also launch game.

paddle:
    A game controller that primarily included a large dial that could be turned either clockwise or counter-clockwise to generate movement in one dimension within a game.

palette swap:
    Video game characters which are graphically similar except for a hue-shifted palette. Typically done to preserve resources or data space that would otherwise be used up by different designs for the same character, especially for games with sprite-based graphics, though other reasons may exist for palette swaps, such as differentiating similar-looking characters with different properties (e.g. the Green and Red Koopa Troopas from the Super Mario series having different behaviors), or accommodating for the presence of more than one instance of the same unique character to avoid confusion or paradoxes, especially in multiplayer games where multiple players pick the same character.

paper doll:
    A visual representation of the player character's currently used equipment, in which the items are displayed on top of an image of the character. See Role-playing video game § Items and inventory.

party:
    1.  In a cooperative multiplayer game, a team of players working together to complete the same mission or quest. See Role-playing game § Game mechanics. 2.  In a single player game, a group of characters traveling together on a quest that the player may control or have the most direct access to. The characters themselves are typically referred to as "party members".

parry:
    A block in fighting and action video games performed by precisely timing a defensive maneuver or block. Parries usually fully negate damage from the attack, and may reflect the attack or put the opponent at a momentary disadvantage. In return for these potential advantages, parries often present a risk-reward dynamic in which missing the precise timing leaves the user open to more damage than they would have suffered using a normal block.

party game:
    A multiplayer game, usually consisting of a series of short minigames, that can be easily played in a social setting.

patch:
    The process by which a developer of a video game creates an update to an already released game with the intention of possibly adding new content, fixing any bugs in the current game, balancing character issues (especially prevalent in online multiplayer games with competitive focuses), or updating the game to be compatible with DLC releases. See also zero day patch.

pause:
    The option to temporarily suspend play of a video game, allowing the player to take a break or attend to an urgent matter outside of the game, or to perform other actions through a menu, such as adjusting options, saving the current game or ending the current game session. In multiplayer online or networked games, pausing may not be available as a feature, as such games require continuous activity from all participating players in order to properly function.

paywall:
    A monetization method that requires players to spend money to access gameplay features.

pay to win:
    Also P2W or PTW.Elements of a game that can only be unlocked by making premium digital purchases and provide the player with an advantage. The purchase packages can include game currency, resources, special characters, unique items, summoning tickets, character skins that give buffs to their stats, or VIP points if the game has a built-in VIP system. This monetization scheme can result in an unbalanced experience between players.

peak:
    Commonly used when the player or someone in the current lobby they are in does something that is above their current skill level.

pentakill:
    Usually used within MOBAs, a pentakill occurs when a single player gets the killing blow on 5 opposing players in rapid succession, resulting in a team elimination. Comparable to ace.

peripheral:
    An optional hardware component for a video game system.

perks:
    Special bonuses that video game players can add to their characters to give special abilities. Similar to power ups, but permanent.

permadeath:
    Also hardcore mode.Generally refers to when a player must restart the game from the beginning when their character dies, instead of from a saved game or save point. This may also refer to the case of a player having to restart the game due to failing to meet a certain objective. The term may also apply to squad-based games such as tactical role-playing games, if the death of the character eliminates that character from the game completely but the game may continue on with other characters.

persistent state world (PSW):
    An online game-world that exists independently of the players and is semi-permanently affected by their actions.

pervasive game:
    A game that blends its in-game world with the physical world. The term has been associated with ubiquitous games, mixed-reality games, and location-aware mobile games. Examples of pervasive games include Pokémon Go and Pac-Manhattan.

physical release:
    A version of a video game released on an optical disc or other storage device, as opposed to a digital download.

physics game:
    A subgenre of puzzle video game where the player has to use the game's physics and environment to complete each puzzle. Notable examples include Portal, World of Goo and Cut the Rope, and projectile collision games such as Angry Birds and Peggle.

ping:
    1.  In online games, the network latency between the client and server. See also lag. Can also be used like lagging, if there is a high network latency. 2.  A means of highlighting a feature on a game's map that is seen on the user interface of allied players (as a part of a ping system).)

ping system:
    In co-operative multiplayer games, gameplay feature that allows players on the same team to visibly highlight, or "ping", other features on the map (such as waypoints, enemies, or treasure) to their allied players. While ping systems existed in various genres such as MOBAs before, Apex Legends in the late 2010s was cited with popularizing the system for first-person shooters that enabled effective communication between players without the need for voice chat.

pity pull:
    A mechanic in certain gacha games where a player will eventually be guaranteed a high-quality item after too many unsuccessful pulls.

pixel hunting:
    A game element that involves searching an entire scene for a single (often pixel-sized) point of interactivity. Common in adventure games, most players consider 'hunt-the-pixel' puzzles to be a tedious chore, borne of inadequate game design. The text-adventure version of this problem is called 'guess-the-verb' or 'syntax puzzle'.

pixel-perfect:
    An action that must be performed whilst being positioned within a pixel-wide gap for perfect execution. A pixel in this case may refer to a screen pixel or an in-game pixel, such as in video games that utilize pixel art.

PK:
    Short for "Player Kill" or "Player Killing", It is an act in an online game where a player kills another player's character. While PvP is a broad term encompassing any game mode where players fight each other. PK often refers to a more specific, and sometimes negative, aspect of PvP, particularly when players target others who are not actively engaged in PvP combat.

plant:
    "Plants" are often found in games that feature a variety of microtransactions. They are "players" who collude with game developers to promote unhealthy competition. These "plants" are discretely given free and powerful items by game developers. This is typically done to artificially create competition for the legitimate paying players so that the already paying players feel the need to spend more money to compete against this new "player."

platform:
    1.  A buzzword for operating system, a video game is released for Windows or Android and so forth, not for PC, console or mobile. A corporation that controls a platform is referred to as a "platform holder". 2.  A resting piece of ground, frequently floating, in a platform game (see below).

platform game:
    Also platformer.Any video game, or genre which involves heavy use of jumping, climbing, and other acrobatic maneuvers to guide the player-character between suspended platforms and over obstacles in the game environment.

platting:
    A term exclusive to PlayStation users that refers to obtaining all achievements of a game. The word "plat" refers to the platinum trophy, which is usually the most difficult achievement to obtain and often the last one to be unlocked. It is sometimes denoted as "platinum" when used as a verb.

play:
    When the performance of a player is decisive, skillful, or otherwise noteworthy, the events or actions of the player as a whole are referred to as a "play" (e.g. "Nice play dude").

player-character (PC):
    The character controlled and played by the human player in a video game. Often the game's main protagonist. Tidus from Final Fantasy X and Doomguy from the Doom series are all "player-characters" developed by their game studios. Compare with NPC.

player versus environment (PvE):
    Refers to fighting computer-controlled enemies (non-player characters), as opposed to player versus player (PvP).

player versus player (PvP):
    Refers to competing against other players, as opposed to player versus environment (PvE).

player's handbook:
    See walkthrough.

playthrough:
    The act of playing a game from start to finish, in one or several sessions. Compare with longplay.

playtesting:
    A process in which game developers observe players (called playtesters) testing their game and what the user experience is like in real-time, in order to see where players get stuck, what information is and isn't communicated clearly, and which gameplay elements are found enjoyable or frustrating.

pocket (pocketing):
    Pocketing refers in multiplayer games to when a player (usually playing the part of a healer support) supports exclusively a single teammate (usually a tank), either at an extended period of time but with several teammates or during the entire match with a single teammate. This is done with the intent of assuring the supported player's survival during the time they're being supported. The term pocket refers either to the supporting player, or the supported player.

pog/poggers:
    From PogChamp, a term meaning great or awesome, often a play in a game.

point of no return:
    A point in a game from which the player cannot return to previous areas.

postgame:
    Gameplay which takes place after completion of a game's storyline; the postgame may unlock new means to play the game, such as New Game Plus, additional minigames or sidegames, or even an additional, second storyline for the player to play through.

popping off:
    Used mostly in the context of esports competitions or video game streaming, a gamer is said to "pop off" when they unexpectedly perform exceptionally well in a video game for a short period of time.

power-up:
    An object that temporarily gives extra abilities or buffs to the game character. Persistent power-ups are called perks.

power creep:
    The gradual unbalancing of a game due to successive releases of new content. The phenomenon may be caused by a number of different factors and, in extreme cases, can be damaging to the longevity of the game in which it takes place. Game expansions are usually stronger than previously existing content, giving consumers an incentive to buy it for competitions against other players or as new challenges for the single-player experience. While the average power level within the game rises, older content falls out of balance and becomes regressively outdated or relatively underpowered, effectively rendering it useless from a competitive or challenge-seeking viewpoint. Very occasionally may refer to the result of repeatedly balancing a game primarily through buffs and nerfs, thus making every character substantially more powerful than they were at release. See also: planned obsolescence.

power spike:
    The moment in which a character sees a rise in relative strength from leveling up larger than that of a normal milestone. This is usually due to an item becoming available or certain abilities being unlocked.

p-rank:
    Often awarded in games for completing a level or challenge 'perfectly,' such as in the fastest time possible or by defeating an enemy without taking damage.

pro:
    Shortened version of the word "professional". Someone with experience, skill, and especially know-how in a certain game.

proc:
    The activation, trigger or occurrence of a conditional, often random, event. Particularly common for massively multiplayer online games, they are conditional events where special equipment provide the user with temporary extra powers, or when the opposing enemy suddenly becomes more powerful in some way. The term's origin is uncertain, possibly from programmed random occurrence, process, or procedure.

procedural generation:
    When the game algorithmically combines randomly generated elements, particularly in game world creation. See also Roguelike.

pro gamer move:
    A strategic and tactical move that shows that the player is familiar with or skilled in a game and its gameplay mechanics. Sometimes used outside of video games, and occasionally used in an ironic manner to describe a poorly planned move or failure.

professional gaming:
    See electronic sports.

progression system:
    The game mechanics that determine how a player improves their player-character over the course of a game or several games, such as gaining experience points to level up characters, performing tasks to gain new abilities, or part of a metagame improvement.

PT:
    refers to 1) combat points (i.e., melee, range, etc.) and 2) skill points (i.e., beginner, expert, elite, master); often used as reference to meet requirements; to be able to equip armors, weapons, as well as for crafting weapons, ammunition and armors for specialists, and to unlock next tier skills (i.e., 30 beginner skill PT to unlock expert skills).

pub:
    1.  Short for public lobby, as opposed to a private lobby. 2.  Players who play in public lobbies ("pubbies").

public lobby:
    A multiplayer lobby composed of random players found using in-game matchmaking tools.

publisher:
    The company that (in whole or in part) finances, distributes and markets the game. This is distinct from the developer, though the publisher may own the developer.

pick-up group (PUG):
    A group of players formed on the fly, usually to carry out a mutually beneficial task. PUGs will disband after the common objective has been achieved. Commonly used in MMORPGs.

pulling:
    1.  RPG terminology that refers to engaging in combat from a distance, with the intent of luring a hostile NPC (or a group) to the player's location to fight them there. 2.  Gacha terminology that refers to spinning the wheel in hopes of obtaining a rare or high-quality item or character.

puzzle video game:
    A broad genre of video games involving puzzle solving, often with abstract shapes.

PvE:
    See player versus environment.

PvP:
    See player versus player.

pwn:
    To dominate an opponent, usually another player.

QA:
    See quality assurance.

QQ:
    An emoji that looks like a pair of teary eyes. Used as a taunt that means "cry more". Originally referred to the shortcut Alt+Q+Q from Warcraft 2, used as an insult telling players to activate the shortcut which would quit the game. The phrase blew up so much, it made its way out of the Warcraft community and eventually evolved into "cry more".

QTE:
    See quick time event.

quality assurance:
    Quality Assurance teams for games will play through a title multiple times in an attempt to find and track down bugs, glitches and crashes in the game before it goes live. This process can start early in development and can last until after post-production. Not to be mistaken with playtesting.

quality of life (QoL):
    Features or improvements designed to make games easier, smoother to play, or more accessible, without changing fundamental aspects of the game's presentation, narrative, or gameplay.

quest:
    Any objective-based activity created in-game for the purpose of either story (story quest) or character-level advancement (side quest). Quests follow many common types, such as defeating a number of specific monsters, gathering a number of specific items, or safely escorting a non-player character. Some quests involve more-detailed information and mechanics and are either greatly enjoyed by players as a break from the common monotony or are reviled as uselessly more-complicated than necessary.

quick time event (QTE):
    An event within a game that typically requires the player to press an indicated controller button or move a controller's analog controls within a short time window to succeed in the event and progress forward, while failure to do so may harm the player-character or lead to a game-over situation. Such controls are generally non-standard for the game, and the action performed in a quick time event is usually not possible to execute in regular gameplay.

quicksave:
    1.  A mechanism in a video game where progress to or from a saved game can be done by pressing a single controller button or keystroke, instead of opening a file dialog to locate the save file. Typically, there is only one quickload location and quicksaving will overwrite any previously saved state. 2.  An option to use a one-time save which takes the player out of the game, allowing them to continue from where they last were and in the state they last were, thereby allowing the player to turn off the console or do something else with it without losing progress, but without gaining anything beyond that compared with not quicksaving. More common in handheld games, where an emphasis on short gameplay sessions encourages developers to give the player a way to play for shorter periods.

quickscoping:
    A technique in first-person shooter video games used to attack a target by quickly aiming down sights on a weapon and immediately shooting.

radar:
    A smaller version of the play area, typically displayed in the corner of a players screen used for navigating the game world. May also display locations of friendly or enemy players. See also Minimap.

ragdoll:
    Also ragdolling.A type of procedural animation used by physics engines where static death animations have been replaced by a body going limp and collapsing in on itself, with the only animation acting on the body and its connected limbs being from the game's physics engine. This often gives the impression that a character is flailing or being flung around, like a rag doll.

rage game:
    A genre designed to cause anger and frustration in the player, using unintuitive controls, unforeseeable obstacles, unfair challenges or taunting the player, often with the express stated purpose of causing the player to rage quit. Completing a rage game is commonly seen as a measure of determination and resolve as much as skill.

rage quit:
    Also gamer rage.The act of quitting a game mid-progress instead of waiting for the game to end. Typically, this is associated with leaving in frustration, such as unpleasant communication with other players, being annoyed, or losing the game. However, the reasons can vary beyond frustration, such as being unable to play due to the way the game has progressed, bad sportsmanship, or manipulating game statistics. Apparent rage quits may occur due to a player's game crashing, or the player experiencing network connection problems. There are also social implications of rage quitting, such as making other players rage quit. Certain games can penalize the player for leaving early. Sometimes the player may damage or even destroy the device, console, or controller the game is being played on. Contrast with drop-in, drop-out.

raid:
    A type of mission in a game where a number of people attempt to defeat either: (a) another number of people at player-vs-player (PVP), (b) a series of computer-controlled enemies (non-player characters; NPCs) in a player-vs-environment (PVE) battlefield, or (c) a very powerful boss (superboss).

random encounter:
    A gameplay feature most commonly used in older Japanese role-playing games whereby combat encounters with non-player character (NPC) enemies or other dangers occur sporadically and at random without the enemy being physically seen beforehand.

RDM:
    Acronym for Random Death Match. Used in DarkRP to complain about unprovoked assault, and is usually against the rules See deathmatch.

reactivity:
    Refers to the manner in which a game world reacts to and is changed by the player's choices. Examples include branching dialogue trees in an RPG, or detailed interacting systems in a simulation or strategy game. A reactive game world offers a greater number of possible outcomes to a given action, but increases the complexity and cost of development.

real-time corruptor:
    A type of ROM/ISO corruptor program which incrementally and gradually corrupts video game data in real time as the game is being played for the purpose of finding amusing or interesting results. The rate at which the data is corrupted, and its severity can be changed by the user at will, enabling the game to be played in a corrupted state or to suddenly increase the intensity of the resultant glitches.

real-time strategy (RTS):
    A genre of video game where the player controls one or more units in real-time combat with human or computer opponents.

reboot:
    A "restart" of a video game series, usually applying significant changes to characters, settings, gameplay, or the overall story, while still keeping identifiable elements of the original games. A reboot may also tie into or follow on from the original games directly whilst still intended to be a "starting point" for the series in question, this is sometimes referred to as a soft reboot. See also remaster and remake.

remake:
    A revamped version of an older game. Sharing many similarities to a remaster, a remake may take more liberties with the changes made to the gameplay, graphics, and story. See also remaster and reboot, contrast with demake.

remaster:
    A modernized version of an older video game intended to run on modern hardware, often with upgraded graphics and gameplay, but retaining the fundamental gameplay concepts and core story elements of the original game. See also reboot and remaster.

remorting:
    Also rerollingRestarting a game with a new character from the lowest possible stats, after having maxed out a previous character.

remote play:
    Playing a game on an owned device remotely over the internet.

replay value:
    The ability to play a game again after its completion with reasonable enjoyment.

respawn:
    The reappearance of an entity, such as a character or object, after its death or destruction.

respecing:
    In games where a player-character gains skills along a skill tree by spending points, the act of respecing ("re-specialization") allows the player to remove all skills and then respend those points on a different set of skills. This usually requires an expenditure of in-game money or other earned gameplay element.

retrogaming:
    Also old-school gamingThe playing or collecting of older personal computer, console, and arcade video games in contemporary times.

review bomb:
    Actions taken by players to leave negative reviews of a game or other form of media on a digital storefront or user-contributed as a form of protest due to actions typically unrelated to the game or media quality itself.

revive:
    The act of restoring a defeated character or entity to life that is not removed from play after their health is gone; this is different from respawning, which only occurs typically without outside intervention and when a character is removed from play after their health has been depleted. Another common synonym is "rez".

rez:
    A character's ability that allows them to perform a revive, or a command to use the same. Abbreviation for resurrect. When players can perform this on themselves, this is sometimes known as a self-rez.

rhythm game:
    A genre of video game requiring the player to perform actions in time to the game's music.

RNG:
    Initialism of random number generation, which refers to computational methods that produce random (or, more accurately in most cases, pseudo-random) variability. In video games, this refers to gameplay elements that have unpredictable outcomes determined by such methods. Examples of such elements include random encounters, loot drops, and NPC behavior.

RNGesus:
    Personification of RNG, in a similar fashion to traditional personifications of Lady Luck, often addressed in humor to plead for more favourable RNG. Portmanteau of RNG and Jesus; also called RNGsus, RNJesus, RNGod, or Random Number God.

rocket jumping:
    Also grenade jumping.A tactic used in certain games that include physics simulation and rocket launchers or explosives. The player aims their weapon at or near their player-character's feet, or stand their character where there will be an explosion, and use the force of the blast to propel the character beyond normal jumping ability.

roguelike:
    1.  A sub-genre of games primarily featuring procedurally-generated levels, tile-based movement, turn-based action, complex maps to explore, resource management, and permanent death. Roguelikes are typically set in dungeons, but may contain an overworld or other settings. Roguelike games are usually designed to be more challenging than typical games, with luck and memory playing a larger role. Named after the 1980 game Rogue. 2.  Games using procedurally-generated levels and permanent death that employ a wide variety of mechanics and visual styles not used by traditional, tile-based roguelikes. The term "Roguelite" is sometimes used to describe these types of games to differentiate them from traditional roguelikes.

role-playing (RP):
    A broad set of behaviours within video games where players change their behaviour to assume a role. Not exclusive to role-playing video games. Roleplaying may be as simple as a player acting to fit a medieval setting; as detailed as a player detailing their character's backstory, personal life, and mannerisms; or as complex as a MilSim game's clans having scheduled trainings, realistically long mission times, and military-like ranks and organization.

role-playing video game (RPG):
    A game in which the player takes on the role of a character or party of characters. These games focus on their advancement (such as increasing their level or gaining new abilities) and often use them to tell a detailed story.

rolling the score:
    The act of achieving such a high score that the game's ability to display the score restarts, displays a negative number, or is otherwise unable to accurately display the score. Originates from early games that had limitations on the number that could be displayed as a score, such as pinball with a limited number of analog or digital number places, or video game systems with limited numbers of bytes. If a player's score exceeded that limit, it would cause an integer overflow, causing the display to 'roll over' and start again at the minimum possible score, or sometimes a negative number in 8-bit video games.

ROM hacking:
    The process of modifying a ROM image of a video game to alter the game's graphics, dialogue, levels, gameplay, or other elements. This is usually done by technically inclined video-game fans to make an old game more fresh, as a creative outlet, or to create entirely new experiences using the old game as a base "engine".

room:
    1.  A small, open area in a map, typically self-contained, surrounded by walls and connected to adjacent rooms by doors. In many cases, specific types of entities such as enemies cannot travel between rooms, while the player can. Rooms are often used to reduce lag by only loading the entities in the player's current room, ‘pausing’ all other rooms. 2.  In adventure games, any discrete exterior or interior area in a map connected to other areas by exits. Text adventure game worlds usually consist of interconnected rooms navigated by compass directions with variations such as up, down, enter and exit. In text-and-graphic adventure games, illustrations accompany the rooms' text descriptions. Point-and-click adventure games feature illustrated rooms which the player can interact with using the pointer.

room-over-room:
    The placement of a room directly above another room. This was impossible to achieve with the Doom engine which did mapping in 2D, with height variance done via numbers. In true 3D game engines to follow, such as those using the Quake engine, room-over-room became an easy effect to accomplish.

RPG:
    1.  Abbreviation of role-playing game. 2.  In shooter games, a rocket-propelled grenade.

RTS:
    See real-time strategy.

rubber banding:
    1.  A game mechanic resulting from dynamic game difficulty balancing that alters the rules of the game to keep the game competitive and fun. Most notable in racing games, where human players may easily outdistance computer opponents; when this happens, the computer opponents are often given the ability to go faster than normal or to avoid certain obstacles as to allow them to catch up and outpace the player. The effect is likened to stretching and releasing a rubber band between the player and the computer opponent. This effect may also apply to human players as well, with the game providing (often unstated) handicaps for losing players to stay competitive. 2.  The result of network latency during a multiplayer game; when the player's location is updated client-side, but the server does not immediately register the change, a player's character may 'bounce' to the appropriate location when the client and server finally synchronize. See lag.

rush:
    A tactic in strategy games where the player sacrifices economic development in favor of using many low-cost fast/weak units to rush and overwhelm an enemy by attrition or sheer numbers. Can also be used to refer to a quick "rush" onto an objective or point, with the intention to overwhelm by surprise or speed.

S Rank:
    An achievement awarded to a player in a single level, song, round, or stage by finishing them without "Miss" or any mistakes, or taking damage, or for getting the highest scores or percentage cleared (usually above 90% or 98%). The term can mean a high rating level or a rarity of an item or character within the confines of the game (as valuated by the developer), but it is also used by players in tier lists to refer to the top of the video game meta.

sandbox game:
    A game with a gameplay element that gives the player a great degree of creativity to complete tasks towards a goal within the game, if such a goal exists. Some games exist as pure sandbox games with no objectives; these are also known as non-games or software toys. Very common examples of sandbox games are ones where the player has the ability to create, modify, or destroy their environment, i.e., a game that includes some form of a game creation system. The term alludes to a child's sandbox where the child can create and destroy with no given objective. While 'open world' and 'sandbox' are sometimes used interchangeably (or with only the implication of 'sandbox' being smaller), the terms refer to different concepts and are not synonymous.

save point:
    A place in the game world of a video game where the player's progress in the game can be saved. Often, when the player dies or receives a Game Over, their progress will be reset back to the last Save Point that they used. Some games do not have specific save points, allowing the player to save at any point.

save scumming:
    The manipulation of game save states to gain an advantage during play or achieve a particular outcome from unpredictable events. It is used, for example, in Roguelike games that automatically delete any save files when the player-character dies or in games that use an RNG system to calculate bonuses or item drops in order to achieve an optimal outcome.

saved game:
    Also game save, savegame, or savefile. A file or similar data storage method that stores the state of the game in non-volatile memory, enabling the player to shut down the gaming system and then later restart the device and load the saved game state to continue playing from where they saved. Saved games may also be used to store the game's state before a difficult area that, should the player-character die, the player can try again without penalty.

screen cheat:
    The act of looking at other players' areas of the screen when playing split-screen multiplayer, giving the screen cheater an unfair advantage. The 2014 game Screencheat derives both its name and core gameplay from this act.

score attack:
    A mode of gameplay that challenges the player to earn the highest score possible in a game level or through the whole game.

season:
    1.  The full set of downloadable content that is planned to be added to a video game, which can be entirely purchased with a season pass 2.  A finite period of time in a massively multiplayer online game in which new content, such as themes, rules, modes, et cetera, becomes available, sometimes replacing prior time-limited content. Notable games that use this system include Star Wars: Battlefront II and Fortnite Battle Royale.

season pass:
    A purchase made in addition to the cost of the base game that generally enables the purchaser access to all downloadable content that is planned for that title without further cost.

second-party developer:
    A developer which, despite not being owned by a console maker nonetheless produces games solely for that maker's consoles. Often they have a special arrangement involved. Due to the ambiguity from the player's perspective, these developers are often referred to as first-party developers. Games developed by second-party developers are often called 'second-party games.'

secret character:
    A player character that is only available to the player after meeting some sort of requirement; such as beating the game, completing optional challenges, entering cheat codes or even hacking the game (as some secret characters may be intended to not be in the game, but are still present in the game's code). Secret characters may initially appear as NPCs.

secret level:
    A game level that is only accessible to the player by completing specific tasks within the game; these tasks are rarely described in detail to the player, if at all, and are often only found through exploration and trial and error, or even by hacking, if the level was not intended to be in the game, but is still present in the game's code. Compare with bonus stage.

sequence breaking:
    Manipulating a game to carry out events out of their intended order. Sequence breaking can be used to speedrun a game, obtain desirable items earlier in a game's story than intended, unlock content faster, or induce other glitches that may be utilised for advantageous means.

shoot 'em up (SHMUP):
    A sub-genre of the shooter genre, where a single, usually mobile character has to shoot at enemies while all of the enemies attacking or moving toward it. The player character will typically have no allies, is extremely fragile, has little non-hazardous terrain to deal with, lacks any reload time for their basic weapon, and will gain power-ups to improve their abilities. Strongly associated with spaceships, but other player characters may be used. Sometimes conflated with shooters in general. Contains the bullet hell sub-genre

shooter:
    A genre of video game that involves using ranged weapons. See also first-person shooter.

shoto:
    In fighting games, a character who has a projectile, an anti-air attack, and an attack that moves them forward. The term originates from the Street Fighter series, where Ryu and Ken were the first characters to use this moveset.

shovelware:
    A poor quality, low-budget video game, often developed quickly alongside a large quantity of other shovelware. These often have a licensed property associated with them to increase their chances of being bought by an unsuspecting customer.

shoulder button:
    A larger button usually placed on the rear or top of a gamepad that is usually pressed or held down with the index or middle finger. It can also be used as a modifier for certain actions performed with analog stick movement or face button presses.

show mode:
    See attract mode.

side-scrolling video game:
    Also side-scroller.A game in which the action is viewed from a side-view camera angle and the screen follows the player as they move.

side quest:
    An optional quest which does not advance the main quest.

simulation video game (sim):
    A game genre that simulates some aspect of reality and is usually open-ended with no intrinsic goal. Inclusive definitions allow for any video game that models reality, such as sports games, while exclusive definitions generally focus on city-building games, vehicle simulation games, or both.

simcade:
    A term for a simulator that combines its serious elements with the fun factor of an arcade video game. Often used as a derogatory term by opponents of certain videogames.

single-player:
    A game that can only have one player at a time. Compare with multiplayer.

sistering:
    The act of two or more guilds banding together to become stronger. This is done to make certain tasks easier with frequent cooperation between guilds, and more.

skill tree:
    A character-development gaming mechanic typically seen in role-playing games. A skill tree consists of a series of skills (sometimes known as perks) which can be earned as the player levels up or otherwise progresses their player-character. These skills grant gameplay benefits; for example, giving the character the ability to perform a new action, or giving a boost to one of the character's stats. A skill tree is called a "tree" because it uses a tiered system and typically branches out into multiple paths. A tiered skill tree will require a player to achieve certain skills before the next tier of skills become available. The player may be required to achieve all skills in one tier before moving on to the next, or may only be required to complete prerequisites for individual branches. Skill trees are a common tool used for in-game balancing by game designers. Skill trees also offer a "game within a game" in which players are not only playing a video game, but their decisions on how they allocate points into their skill trees will affect their overall gaming experience. The action roleplaying game Diablo II, released in 2000, is often cited as the true innovator of in-depth skill trees.

skin:
    A customization option for a player's in-game avatar or equipment that changes its appearance. Skins are featured as part of metagame loot drops, with most games rewarding them based on scarcity or by awarding skins for completing certain objectives or placing high in competitive modes. This enables players to display rare achievements or high skill level. Skins can also be obtained through in-app purchases or from game currency, depending on the game and the developer's monetization methodology. In gacha games, for instance, skins of some characters may require the purchase of a bundle, while others are more easily accessible through spending diamonds acquired in the game instead of the player's cash. Skins may be only decorative, or they can also provide the character with stat boosts.

skirmish mode:
    A game mode in which players can fight immediate battles without having to go through the linear, story-based campaign mode. It is popular in real-time strategy games.

SMP:
    See survival multiplayer.

smurf:
    In online multiplayer games that use matchmaking, a new or much lower-ranked account used by an experienced player in order to be matched with a new and inexperienced opponent who can be easily defeated. The concept is similar to hustling and sandbagging that can be found in gambling and board games. See also twinking.

snowballing:
    A situation where a player or faction is able to leverage a small advantage into a larger and larger advantage. An example of a snowball effect.

softlock:
    A situation where further progress in a game becomes impossible, but the game itself does not crash (or hard lock). An example of a no-win situation, softlocks can occur as the result of glitches in gameplay, the use of corruptors, sequence breaking, or as a result of poor game design. Sierra was well-known to purposely implement softlock situations into their games.

sound test:
    A page or option in which the game makes noise to confirm that the player's audio equipment is working and at a good volume. Usually known for containing the soundtrack and sound effects of a video game, with the ability to freely listen to them being a secondary function.

Soulsborne:
    A soulslike game developed by FromSoftware, a portmanteau of Dark Souls and Bloodborne.

Soulslike:
    A game genre based on gameplay from the Dark Souls series, typically containing high levels of difficulty, stamina-based combat, and the prominent use of lore and environmental storytelling.

spamming:
    Repeated use of the same item or action (e.g. chat message, combo, weapon). Often used generally to describe such repeated uses, but sometimes used pejoratively when the item or action is considered overpowered or annoying, such as an overreliance on rocket launchers in shooter games.

spawn:
    The place where a character or item is placed in the game world. Also see respawn.

spawn killing:
    In PvP games, the act of killing other players in their spawn, often immediately after they have spawned. Usually looked down upon as unfair for not giving opposing players a chance, though some gamers defend it as a legitimate strategy. Many games have features to prevent spawn killing, such as temporary invincibility or barriers preventing enemies from entering or attacking in spawns. A component of, but not entirely the same as, spawn camping.

spectator mode:
    1.  A game mode that allows a player to view the world without restrictions, but without being able to interact with the game world in any way. 2.  A game mode that allows a player to view the world from another player's perspective.

specialization:
    A means of selecting certain options—such as a character, weapon, vehicle, or other in-game item—during the course of a game for a specific function, as opposed to selecting a specific character class at the start of the game. Such specialization allows that entity to have access to unique skills or options for that type while denying them access to other options. Some games allow players to re-specialize past choices for some in-game cost and pursue a different specialization. See also theorycraft.

specs:
    Short for specifications, used to describe the details of a player's stats, gear, or build.

speedrun:
    An attempt to complete a game as fast as possible. Depending on the rules for the speedrun, players may exploit glitches or bugs in the game to speed their progress.

splash damage:
    Attacks with an explosive or other area-of-effect component deal splash damage, affecting the area around the attack's impact. Splash damage is particularly useful against game targets that dodge well. However, splash damage weapons are also dangerous since they can damage the shooter and are not preferred in close-quarters combat. Such weapons are typically aimed at an opponent's feet; this ensures that the impact point is near enough for splash damage to cover the opponent in the event that the shot misses. Usually splash damage is separate from the damage of a direct hit with an attack, and the two may or may not both affect the target. Often there is damage falloff, meaning the further away from the center of the attack a target is, the lower the splash damage.

split-screen multiplayer:
    A game that presents two or more views seen by different players in a multiplayer game on the same display unit.

spray and pray:
    The act of blindly firing an automatic weapon with the intent of potentially hitting the target; tends to be ineffective.

squeaker:
    A usually derogatory term that refers to young tween and preteen gamers that use voice chat, the word referring to their high-pitched voice as a result of them not having hit puberty yet.

stamina:
    1.  A resource that allows the player to use certain types of physically exerting actions, such as running and attacking, that typically replenishes over time. 2.  A type of stat that governs a character's ability to take damage, either raising their health or increasing their defense.

stat point:
    A discrete number of points for the player to distribute among their character's attributes, e.g., to choose their player's trade-offs between strength, charisma, and stamina.

stat squish:
    A practice of scaling down numbers, commonly score or health points, damage or healing values, or item levels, in the aftermath of a stat inflation as numbers get exponentially large and more difficult for the player to conceptualize. The practice is most common in MMORPGs, and World of Warcraft is notable for having several stat squishes.

status effect:
    An overarching term that covers both buffs and debuffs. Essentially, any effect to a character that is outside of the normal baseline is a status effect. Common negative status effects are poisoning (damage over time), petrification/paralysis (inability to move), or armor/damage reduction (lowering of defensive/offensive abilities). Common positive status effects include a heal-over-time (a small, pulsing heal that triggers multiple times over a set period), armor/damage increases, or speed increases.

strafing:
    To move sideways, often to dodge incoming attacks while keeping the camera on the enemy. See also circle strafing.

strategy guide:
    Printed or online manuals that are written to guide players through a game, typically offering maps, lists of equipment, moves, abilities, enemies, and secrets, and providing tips and hints for effective play strategies.

strategy video game:
    A game genre which emphasizes consideration and planning to achieve victory. Subgenres include real-time strategy, turn-based strategy and wargames.

stream-sniping:
    When a player watches another (usually professional) player livestream a game to locate their position or plans and gain the upper hand on them. This practice most commonly occurs in online multiplayer games and is generally frowned upon.

streaming media:
    Video and audio that is continuously fed from a server to a client and presented to the end user. In gaming, this may be used to watch a live or recorded Let's Play demonstration of a game, or to play a game through cloud gaming.

stun lock:
    A situation whereby the player character cannot act for a long period of time due to being periodically stunned. Often caused by being staggered by repeated attacks from multiple enemies.

superboss:
    An optional super powerful boss, typically more powerful and harder to beat than the game's main final boss.

survival game:
    A game set in a hostile open-world environment where characters are challenged to collect resources, craft items, and survive as long as possible.

survival mode:
    A type of game mode in co-operative multiplayer games. Players work together to defend one or more objectives or simply to have at least one man standing as they fight through discrete waves of enemies, with each subsequent wave featuring more numerous and powerful enemies. Such modes often include elements of tower defense games where players can deploy defensive tools such as turrets or traps to injure or slow enemies. The game may offer short periods between waves where players can spend in-game currency or similar points to improve their defenses, their equipment, or similar boosts. Horde modes can be based on a fixed number of waves or in an endless mode where players attempt to last as long as possible.

survival multiplayer:
    A multiplayer game mode where players start out with no items, a health bar, and are able to die (as opposed to creative mode, where players are immortal). Commonly used to refer to Minecraft servers, but can otherwise be used to refer to any similar game mode in any game. A well-known example is the Dream SMP.

sweat:
    Also sweaty, sweatlord.A derogatory term used to refer to players with a highly competitive attitude, typically in situations where such an attitude is uncalled for or unnecessary. Synonymous with tryhard.

T-pose:
    A positioning of a character model in a video game with the character standing upright and arms up to the side. Typically used as a default position for 3D character models, this is often seen in games as a glitch or result of software bugs.

tank:
    Also meat shield.A character with abilities or equipment to have high health and damage mitigation that draws aggro from opponents and receives enemy attacks so that teammates can concentrate on their attacks or objectives. Common in MMORPGs.

tank controls:
    A character movement control system in which up and down directional inputs move the player character forward or backward, while sideways directional inputs rotates the character, similar to how a tank's movement is controlled.

targeting:
    Also tunneling.A strategy used in online games where the player continuously kills or attacks the same opponent, ignoring the others surrounding them. It is often seen as unsportsmanlike behaviour in gaming.

taunt:
    A tactic and an effect used during turn-based fights in which a character (usually with high defense or hit points (HP) – see Tank) tricks opponents into attacking him/herself instead of the rest of the team. 2.  A move in a fighting game where one player presses a specific input or inputs to make their character play an animation which usually deals no damage and serves merely to mock their opponent.

teabagging:
    A type of action used in multiplayer games where a victorious player-character repeatedly crouches down and stands back up (functions that are a common part of standard gameplay) over the head of knocked down or dead opponent, simulating the sexual act of the same name. The act is usually considered disrespectful and provocative, intended to irritate their opponents and make them act irrationally. While the act of teabagging is generally associated with first or third-person shooters, similar actions in other game genres have become synomous with teabagging.

Team Ace:
    A term exclusive to Valorant where each individual member of one team killed one individual member of the opposing team. In other contexts it may refer to a team killing every opponent without sustaining any deaths themselves.

teamkill:
    The killing of teammates through destruction or damage done to allies, such as through deliberate shooting of teammates. Teamkilling is often identified as unsportsmanlike behavior.

technology tree:
    Also tech tree. A branching series of technologies that can be researched in strategy games, to customize the player's faction. See also skill tree.

telefrag:
    A frag or kill which occurs when a player uses a teleporter to get to a location occupied by another character. This character is killed and the player-character landing on them is granted credit for the kill.

telegraphing:
    1.  Animations or similar visual and audible indicators that indicate to a player what actions an opponent will take. Often used as part of computer-controlled artificial intelligence to help the player avoid or block attacks or make counter-attacks. 2.  In multiplayer games, the actions a player does, revealing to their opponent or opponents what attack they may do next. Usually considered a sign of predictability, but for some characters it may be necessary.

test room:
    A secret level that is used by developers to test the movements, actions and control of a game's player character(s). They are usually removed or hidden from regular access before the game is released.

theory:
    See game studies and theorycraft.

theorycraft:
    The analysis of a video game to mathematically determine the most-optimal approach to winning the game, typically in games that feature a number of player-character attributes that are enumerated. One common type of theorycraft is determining how to best maximize damage per second through selection of equipment and skills. See also min-maxing.

third party:
    When two teams or players are in a fight and a third team or player attempts to kill one or both of the teams. The term was likely popularized in battle royale games such as Fortnite but is also used in first-person shooters.

third person point of view:
    A view where the player character is seen on screen.

throwing:
    See gamethrowing.

thumbstick:
    See analog stick.

tick:
    An increment of damage or healing periodically caused by a DoT or HoT effect.

tier list:
    A hierarchical organization of various gameplay elements, such as characters, classes, weapons, or abilities, organized into "tiers" based on their perceived usefulness. An element placing in the top or bottom tiers of this list can be called top-tier or bottom-tier, respectively, with similar terminology describing elements as high-tier, mid-tier, or low-tier.

tile-matching video game:
    A type of puzzle video game where the player manipulates tiles in order to make them disappear according to a matching criterion. If this number is three, the game is called a match-3 game.

tilt:
    When a player gets angry at someone or something, often resulting in reduced quality of play.

time attack:
    A game mode that challenges player(s) to complete a level or the game within a fixed amount of game time or in the fastest time possible. Often, the best times are recorded for other players to see.

timed exclusive:
    When a game releases exclusively for one platform but may release for other platforms when the exclusivity period expires.

time to kill:
    The average amount of time it takes to kill an opponent. Commonly used in first-person shooters, especially tactical shooters, where it is typically representative of how much damage or shots a character can take before dying, and thus also the game's realism.

title screen:
    The initial screen of a computer, video, or arcade game after the credits and logos of the game developer and publisher are displayed. Early title screens often included all the game options available (single player, multiplayer, configuration of controls, etc.) while modern games have opted for the title screen to serve as a splash screen. This can be attributed to the use of the title screen as a loading screen, in which to cache all the graphical elements of the main menu. Older computer and video games had relatively simple menu screens that often featured pre-rendered artwork. In arcade games, the title screen is shown as part of the attract mode loop, usually after a game demonstration is played. The title screen and high score list urge potential players to insert coins. In console games, especially if the screen is not merged with the main menu, it urges the player to press start. Similarly, in computer games, the message "Hit any key" is often displayed. Controls that lack an actual "Start" button use a different prompt; the Wii, for example, usually prompts the player to press both letter buttons on the Wii Remote simultaneously, as in Super Mario Galaxy 2 or Mario Party 9. Fan-made games often parody the style of the title that inspired them.

touchscreen:
    A form of user input that relies on physical touch, rather than a mouse, keyboard or other control method.

toxicity:
    Slang for the actions of a rude and unwelcoming gamer or gaming community that detriments the experience for other players or developers. Almost universally viewed negatively across gaming, some game developers take measures to stymie toxicity in their games.

tower dive:
    Commonly used in MOBAs to define the act of going into range of the opponent's tower, a defensive structure that damages its opponents, to kill low-health targets.

trackball:
    A form of a video game controller, most often found on arcade game cabinets, in which the player uses a freely-rotating ball to interact with the game.

transmogrification or transmog:
    Changing the appearance of gear, such as weapons and armor, typically to that of functionally equivalent gear.

trash:
    1.  A term meaning bad or poor, often used to insult a player(s) in online PvP games, but also used for items, spells, etc. 2.  Commonly used in MMORPGs to refer to groups of non-boss enemies. Particularly in dungeons/ areas leading up to boss fights.

trickjump:
    Any type of unusual jump that demonstrates skill and expertise, often considered an exploit that was unforeseen by the game's creators.

triple jump:
    Being able to jump twice in mid-air after leaving the ground, and must then typically touch the ground before being able to mid-air jump again. See also double jump.

tryhard:
    An insult that means a gamer is ruining the fun of the game due to an inordinate obsession with winning. Also known as playing sweaty. True Last Boss (TLB)Can be similar to a superboss. Primarily in shoot 'em up (SHMUP)s, A boss in a game that is exceptionally difficult, and has specific requirements outside of a normal game clear that must be met in order to reach the boss.turn-based game When a game consists of multiple turns. When one player's turn is complete, they must wait until everyone else has finished their turn.

turtling:
    A gameplay strategy that emphasizes heavy defense, with little or no offense. A player who turtles minimizes risk to themselves while baiting opponents to take risks in trying to overcome the defenses.

twinking:
    A practice in MMORPGs of equipping a low-level character with items or resources not normally available to new characters, by transfer from high-level characters.

underpowered:
    A character, item, tactic, or ability considered to be too weak to be a balanced element of gameplay.

underworld:
    A collection of isolated dungeon-, cave-, or hell-like levels which are connected by an open overworld.

unfinished:
    Used to describe games that release in a very buggy state, or with missing/poor-quality content, such that it gives the impression of having been fully released before development was properly completed (whether or not this is the case). Compare beta release.

unlockable:
    A piece of content that is obtained in-game by fulfilling certain conditions. These are sometimes represented in-game or represented through a platform-wide system of achievements. Such content can be purely cosmetic, a game mechanic, tool, character, a separate video game, and more. They are sometimes hidden Easter eggs.

ultimate:
    Ultimate attacks or abilities (or ults) that a character may possess, often those that are the strongest or that deal the most damage. Ults often require an energy bar, charge meter, or other similar resource which must be filled before the ult can be used.

upgrade:
    A game mechanic to make a given item, character, etc. more powerful. Equipment is commonly upgraded through crafting while a character upgrade may be an alternative to advancing a character level.

VAC:
    An abbreviation of Valve Anti-Cheat, Valve Corporation's cheat detection software. Players who are caught using cheats on a VAC-secured server will be issued a VAC ban, banning them from VAC-secured servers for that particular game in the future and putting a mark on their Steam profile that can't be hidden from public view. VAC bans are permanent, non-negotiable, and cannot be removed by Steam Support. Players who have gotten a VAC ban are sometimes referred to as going on a "permanent VACation".

vaporware:
    Video games which are announced and appear in active development for some time but are never released nor officially cancelled.

video game design:
    The process of designing a video game, including content and game mechanics.

virtual economy (in game money):
    A term used to describe the economy in a video game, for example, gold and the auction house in Old School RuneScape money can be used to buy in game gear, all the way to in-game cosmetics.

virtual reality (VR):
    An interactive computer-generated experience taking place within a simulated environment. Used in video gaming primarily to describe a VR-based video game or a VR option for an otherwise non-VR video game.

visual novel:
    A genre of video games with interactive stories. These games typically use static imagery, anime-styled character art (thanks in part to the popularity of the genre in Japan), and detailed backgrounds, with character dialogue presented in text boxes. Players may alter the path of the story by choosing from dialog trees or a small list of actions.

waggle:
    A pejorative term when one must shake a controller to do an action, regardless of how the controller is shaken. Usually implies that the controller needs to be shaken wildly. Sometimes extended to motion controls in general, ignoring any precision required.

walking simulator:
    A term sometimes used to classify exploration games, which generally involve exploring an environment for story and narrative but with few, if any, puzzles or gameplay elements. May be considered derogatory but is often used as a neutral term.

walkthrough:
    A description of the gameplay experience for a level or playthrough, intended to guide players who are unsure how to complete it. See also strategy guide.

wall bang:
    Also wall banging.In first or third person shooters, the act of shooting someone through a wall or object with bullets or other projectiles that have penetration. Made a popular term by games such as Counter-Strike and Call of Duty.

wall climb:
    The ability for a video game character to rapidly scale a vertical wall or similar surface, typically as part of the character's passive abilities, but may be aided with a tool such as a grappling hook. This often appears in platform games alongside abilities like wall jumping and double jumping.

wall jump:
    A jump performed off of a vertical surface to propel the player higher in the opposite direction. Wall jumps can be done between two tight walls in quick succession to climb vertically in some games, though some games such as Mega Man X and Transformice allow the player to repeatedly jump on a single wall. As a special jump, it is sometimes an acquired skill instead of available from the game's start.

wallhack:
    A cheat that makes walls translucent. Some wallhacks let players shoot weapons or physically pass through walls. See noclip.

wall run:
    The ability for a video game character to appear to run along a vertical wall for a short distance without falling off. Common in games featuring parkour-type movement.

wanted level:
    A game mechanic popularized by the Grand Theft Auto series and used in many Grand Theft Auto clone games. A player's actions in an open-world game may cause non-player characters, often representing law enforcement, to chase the player, with the response becoming more significant at higher wanted levels. The wanted level persists unless the player can elude these opponents, or if the character dies, eliminating the wanted level. Compare to aggro.

warp zone:
    A shortcut that allows a player to bypass one or more sections of the game. See fast travel.

WASD keys:
    A common control-mechanism using a typical QWERTY keyboard, with the W, A, S, and D keys bound to movement controls. This allows arrow key-like control with the left hand.

wave:
    In game genres or modes where player(s) are to defend a point or stay alive as long as possible, enemies are commonly grouped into "waves" (sometimes referred to as levels). When one wave of enemies is defeated, player(s) are typically given a short period to prepare for the next wave.

weekly:
    An in game objective that offers optional rewards and can be completed every week.

whale:
    In free-to-play games, a user who spends a considerable amount of real-world money for in-game items, rather than acquiring said items through grinding or playing the game normally. These players are typically seen as the largest segment for revenue production for free-to-play titles. Exceptionally high spenders may be called white whales or leviathans. Borrowed from gambling jargon; a 'whale', in that context, is a person who makes extravagant wagers or places reckless bets.

wipe:
    1.  An attack from the boss in which the said boss completely knocks out the entire party. Mostly in massively multiplayer online role-playing games. 2.  An event intentionally resetting all game progress or deleting the save file - i.e., after major updates in early access games.

world:
    A series of levels that share a similar environment or theme. A boss fight will typically happen once all or most of these levels are completed rather than after each individual level.

world compression:
    The representation of a world on a much smaller scale than is realistic. For example, in many role-playing games, it is possible for the player character to walk across a continent in sometimes under a minute, and the player character may appear to be several kilometers tall given the relative scale. This is not the same as the player being much larger than the icon for a town or other settlement, but rather that a distance which is given as hundreds of kilometers appears to be much smaller. In some cases, such as in Final Fantasy VIII, trains will run between towns despite the visibly short distance. For voxel games such as Minecraft, the in-game narrative may refer to a distance as being tens of kilometers away, while the actual distance may be accurately measured by counting only a few hundred blocks understood to each be one meter across.

wrapping:
    A technique that allows a player to move in a straight line and get back to where they started. This was often used in older games to make it seem that the player is moving up or down an extremely high hill; memory can be saved by using wrapping instead of creating a larger area filled with impassable walls. Wrapping is also used to make a 2D game world round; for example, in Pac-Man, exiting the game screen to the right wraps the player to the same position on the left side of the screen. Similarly, in Final Fantasy VII, exiting the game map to the right wraps the player to the same position on the left side of the map, and exiting the map to the top wraps the player to the bottom of the map.

ximmer:
    A term used to refer to console players who use an Xbox Input Machine (XIM) to use mouse-and-keyboard controls or other control units for games that do not officially support them. "Ximmer" is generally considered derogatory as this method is typically associated with cheating in multiplayer games, with such players having finer control over a game compared to a typical controller, however, this method also has valid uses to aid video game accessibility.

XP:
    See experience point.

YouTube bait:
    Also Streamer baitGames that are made for YouTubers or Twitch streamers. See Let's Play.

zerging:
    Also zerg rushTactic in strategy games in which the player uses overwhelming numbers of inexpensive, disposable units rather than skill or strategy. The term comes from the Zerg, a race in StarCraft that uses numerical advantage to overwhelm opponents. See also rush.

zero-day patch:
    A software security patch that fixes a Zero-day vulnerability. See: Zero-day and 0-day warez.

zero-player game:
    Also CPU vs. CPUA game that has no sentient players and only has CPUs.

zone:
    1.  A section of a MUD or MMO's shared environment within which communications may be limited or game mechanics altered to encourage certain types of gameplay. 2.  A synonym for world, most popularly used within the Sonic the Hedgehog series.

zoning:
    A fighting game strategy that involves continuously using long range attacks and projectiles. Characters who specialize in this type of play are called zoners.

== Action ==:
    Action games emphasize physical challenges that require hand-eye coordination and motor skill to overcome. They center around the player, who is in control of most of the action. Most of the earliest video games were considered action games. Today, it is still a vast genre covering all games that involve physical challenges. Action games are classified by many subgenres. Platform games and fighting games are among the best-known subgenres, while shooter games became and continue to be one of the dominant genres in video gaming since the 1990s. Action games usually involve elements of twitch gameplay.

=== Platform games ===:
    Platform games, or platformers, have gameplay primarily centered around jumping and climbing to navigate the player's environment. They may have enemies or obstacles to avoid and fight or may just be pure jumping puzzles. Generally the playable characters in a platform game are able to jump many times their own height and the player is offered some control over their movement in midair as well as the height and distance of their jumps. Settings tend to be vertically exaggerated with much uneven terrain that the player can leap up to or fall off of. Donkey Kong (1981) was one of the earliest and best-known platformers. The American gaming press classified it using the term climbing game at the time. Super Mario Bros. (1985), a platformer, was one of the best-selling games of all time, with more than 40 million copies sold.

=== <Shooter> games ===:
    In shooter games, or simply shooters, players use ranged weapons to participate in the action, which takes place at a distance. Most shooters involve violent gameplay. Lethal weaponry is used to damage opponents. However, some shooters, such as Splatoon, have non-violent objectives. Shooters, aside from subgenre classifications, can be further classified by their perspective of play.

==== First-person shooters ====:
    First-person shooters are played within the protagonist's perspective. They often include a heads-up display showing key information such as the current health of the protagonist. In third-person shooters, the protagonist's body can be seen fully. The environment is rendered from a distance. Some shooters incorporate both perspectives.

==== Hero shooters ====:
    Hero shooters are either first- or third-person multiplayer shooters that emphasize pre-designed "hero" characters, with each possessing distinctive abilities and/or weapons that are specific to them. Hero shooters strongly encourage teamwork between players on a team, guiding players to select effective combinations of hero characters and coordinate the use of hero abilities during a match. Outside of a match, players have the ability to customize the appearance of the heroes but with no other in-game effects. Hero shooters are inspired by the multiplayer online battle arena genre, and popular team-based shooters like Team Fortress 2. Examples of hero shooters include Overwatch, Paladins, Apex Legends, and Valorant.

==== Light gun shooters ====:
    Light gun shooters are controlled with a gun-shaped controller. Light guns function via a light sensor, hence the name "light gun". The technology has been used as early as the 1920s for shooter games, although electronic video gaming did not exist at that time. A popular light gun shooter is Duck Hunt.

==== Shoot 'em ups ====:
    Shoot 'em ups pit players, who are usually piloting some form of flying vehicle, or flying by some other means, against large waves of opponents. The player is continuously moving and must attack and avoid opponent's attacks as well as obstacles. Since the 1990s, shooters, most notably first-person shooters, have become widely successful in video gaming, accounting for a large percentage of video game sales. Wolfenstein 3D, created by Id Software and released in 1992, was credited for pioneering gameplay and graphics elements incorporated by many other shooters. Also developed by Id and published one year after Wolfenstein 3D's release, Doom is broadly considered to be one of the most influential games in video gaming history. Other successful shooter series include Half-Life, a widely acclaimed and commercially successful series noted for its influence on contemporary shooters, and the Call of Duty franchise, with more than 250 million sales across all its titles.

=== Fighting games ===:
    Fighting games center around close-ranged combat, typically one-on-one fights or against a small number of equally powerful opponents, often involving violent and exaggerated unarmed attacks. Most fighting games feature a large number of playable characters and a competitive multiplayer mode. While most fighting games emphasize hand-to-hand combat, some fighting games such as Soulcalibur and Samurai Shodown center around combat with melee weapons. Many fighting games incorporate heavily emphasized attacks based on various martial arts systems. Fighting games were one of the dominant genres in video gaming until the late-1990s, where the genre saw a slight decline. This decline was short-lived, for titles such as Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter, Tekken, and Super Smash Bros. dominate the fighter demographic of the modern era. Different sub-genre games are starting to become more popular. Super Smash Bros., and its deviation from the traditional fighting game rule set, gained a large following because of its "fun over form" party game development mentality.

=== Beat 'em up games ===:
    Beat 'em ups, or brawlers, are a related, but distinct genre to fighting games. While they both involve close-range combat, beat 'em ups put players against large waves of opponents as opposed to a few. Beat 'em ups often incorporate mechanics from other action genres, and multiplayer in beat 'em up games tends to be co-operative rather than competitive. Beat 'em ups saw a sudden decline in popularity in the early 1990s with the release of fighting games, but 3D beat 'em ups have kept the genre alive. Hack and Slash is a sub-genre often used to refer to weapons based beat 'em ups.

=== Stealth games ===:
    These games tend to emphasize sneaking around and avoiding enemy notice over direct conflict, for example, the Metal Gear series, and the Sly Cooper series. In a Stealth game, players are usually still able to engage in loud, conspicuous combat, but are often punished for it. In other games, such as Dishonored, the player can obtain their goal with or without stealth, but stealth is encouraged as the player is at a disadvantage over many of their enemies. The inclusion of stealth as a mechanic in a game does not necessarily make it a Stealth Game. For example, Skyrim has an entire perk tree dedicated to "Sneaking" despite that most of the dungeons in the game can be completed using a hack-and-slash strategy. The first stealth game was Manbiki Shounen (Shoplifting Boy), published in November 1979. The PET 2001 personal computer game was developed by Hiroshi Suzuki. Hideo Kojima's Metal Gear was the first mainstream stealth game, with the player starting the game unarmed, and sold over a million copies in the United States. Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake evolved the stealth gameplay of its predecessor. Metal Gear and Metal Gear 2 are credited with pioneering stealth mechanics. Metal Gear Solid, which debuted at the 1996 Tokyo Game Show, was the first 3D stealth game, and is credited with popularizing the stealth game genre, as well as the hiding-behind-cover mechanic.

=== Survival games ===:
    Survival games start the player off with minimal resources, in a hostile, open-world environment, and require them to collect resources, craft tools, weapons, and shelter, in order to survive as long as possible. Many are set in procedurally generated environments, and are open-ended with no set goals. They may overlap with the survival horror genre, in which the player must survive within a supernatural setting, such as a zombie apocalypse.

=== Rhythm games ===:
    Rhythm game or rhythm action is a genre of music-themed action video game that challenges a player's sense of rhythm. The genre includes dance games such as Dance Dance Revolution and music-based games such as Rock Band and Guitar Hero. Games in the genre challenge the player to press buttons at precise times: the screen shows which button the player is required to press, and the game awards points both for accuracy and for synchronization with the beat. PaRappa the Rapper has been deemed the first influential rhythm game; whose basic template formed the core of subsequent games in the genre. Other popular rhythm games include Dance Dance Revolution, Maimai, Project Diva, Cytus, Love Live: School Idol Festival, The Idolmaster, osu!, Taiko no Tatsujin, Crypt of the Necrodancer, etc.

=== Battle Royale games ===:
    A battle royale game is a genre that blends the survival, exploration and scavenging elements of a survival game with last man standing gameplay. Battle royale games challenge a large number of players, starting with minimal equipment, to search for weapons and armor and eliminate other opponents, while trying to stay in safe playable area which shrinks as the time passes, with the winner being the last competitor in the game. Notable battle royale games include PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds, Fortnite Battle Royale, Garena Free Fire, Apex Legends, and Call of Duty: Warzone, each having received tens of millions of players within months of their releases.

== Action-adventure ==:
    Although action-adventure games can divide into action or adventure games, they combine elements of their two component genres, typically featuring long-term obstacles that must be overcome using a tool or item as leverage, which is collected earlier, as well as many smaller obstacles almost constantly in the way, that require elements of action games to overcome. Action-adventure games tend to focus on exploration and usually involve item gathering, simple puzzle solving, and combat. "Action-adventure" has become a label which is sometimes attached to games which do not fit neatly into another well known genre. Because of their prevalence on video game consoles and the absence of typical adventure games, action-adventure games are often called "adventure games" by modern gamers. One of the first action-adventure games was the Atari 2600 game Adventure (1980). It was directly inspired by the original text adventure, Colossal Cave Adventure. In the process of adapting a text game to a console with only a joystick for control, designer Warren Robinett created an action-adventure game by incorporating action arcade game elements. The action-adventure later became an established genre with Shigeru Miyamoto's The Legend of Zelda (1986), which became a success due to how it combined elements from different genres to create a compelling hybrid, including exploration, transport puzzles, adventure-style inventory puzzles, an action component, a monetary system, and simplified RPG-style level building without the experience points. The game was also an early example of open world, non-linear gameplay, and introduced innovations like saving on battery backup. It became one of the most influential games of the 8-bit era, inspiring action-adventures like Metroid and RPGs like Final Fantasy. Zelda has since remained the most prolific action-adventure game series through to the present day.

=== Survival horror ===:
    Survival horror games focus on fear and attempt to scare the player via traditional horror fiction elements such as atmospherics, death, the undead, blood and gore. One crucial gameplay element in many of these games is the low quantity of ammunition, or number of breakable melee weapons. Notable examples include Silent Hill and Resident Evil. The first survival horror game was AX-2: Uchuu Yusousen Nostromo (AX－2 宇宙輸送船ノストロモ), developed by Akira Takiguchi, a Tokyo University student and Taito contractor, for the PET 2001. It was ported to the PC-6001 by Masakuni Mitsuhashi (also known as Hiromi Ohba, later joined Game Arts), and published by ASCII in 1981, exclusively for Japan.

=== Metroidvania ===:
    Metroidvania games are a subgenre of platformer, named after its two first well-known franchises, Metroid and Castlevania. They feature large interconnected world maps the player can explore, but access to parts of the world is limited by doors or other obstacles that can only be opened after the player has acquired special tools, weapons or abilities within the game. Acquiring such improvements also aids the player in defeating more difficult enemies and locating shortcuts and secret areas, and often includes retracing one's steps across the map. Metroidvanias usually do not consist of any linear gameplay and often involve much backtracking – especially after new powerups or tools have been obtained.

== Adventure ==:
    Adventure games were some of the earliest games created, beginning with the text adventure Colossal Cave Adventure in the 1970s. That game was originally titled simply "Adventure," and is the namesake of the genre. Over time, graphics have been introduced to the genre and the interface has evolved. Unlike adventure films, adventure games are not defined by story or content. Rather, adventure describes a manner of gameplay without reflex challenges or action. They normally require the player to solve various puzzles by interacting with people or the environment, most often in a non-confrontational way. It is considered a "purist" genre and tends to exclude anything which includes action elements beyond a mini game. Because they put little pressure on the player in the form of action-based challenges or time constraints, adventure games have had the unique ability to appeal to people who do not normally play video games. The genre peaked in popularity with the 1993 release of Myst, the best-selling PC game of all time up to that point. The simple point and click interface, detailed worlds and casual pace made it accessible, and its sense of artistic surrealism caused news outlets such as Wired Magazine, The New York Times, and the San Francisco Chronicle to declare that the gaming industry had matured. It had four proper sequels, but none managed to experience the same level of success. The success of Myst also inspired many others to create similar games with first person perspectives, surreal environments and minimal or no dialogue, but these neither recaptured the success of Myst nor of earlier personality-driven adventures. In the late 1990s the genre suffered a large drop in popularity, mass-market releases became rare, and many proclaimed the adventure game to be dead. More accurately, it has become a niche genre. Adventure games are not entirely uncommon, but they tend to be very low budget in anticipation of modest sales. The genre was somewhat rejuvenated with the release of The Longest Journey in 1999, which emphasized stronger story elements and more interaction with different characters. A recent resurgence of adventure games on Nintendo consoles might signify a new interest in the genre. A successful Kickstarter campaign in 2012, run by Doublefine Studios, also spoke to the continued interest in Adventure games. The game produced as a result was mired in controversy and production delays, and to some, signalled the true end of the genre outside of niche markets.

=== Text adventures ===:
    The earliest adventure games were text adventures, also known as interactive fiction. Games such as the popular Zork series of the late 1970s and early 1980s allowed the player to use a keyboard to enter commands such as "get rope" or "go west" while the computer describes what is happening. A great deal of programming went into parsing the player's text input.

=== Graphic adventures ===:
    Adventure games emerged as graphics became more common. Adventure games began to supplement and later on replace textual descriptions with visuals, for example, a picture of the current location. Early graphic adventure games used text-parsers to input commands. The growing use of mice led to the "point-and-click" genre of adventure games, where the player would no longer have to type commands. The player could, for example, click on a hand icon and then on a rope to pick up the rope.

=== Visual novels ===:
    A visual novel (ビジュアルノベル, bijuaru noberu) is a game featuring mostly static graphics, usually with anime-style art. As the name might suggest, they resemble mixed-media novels or tableau vivant stage plays. Many visual novels track statistics that the player must build in order to advance the plot, and permit a variety of endings, allowing more dynamic reactions to the player's actions than a typical linear adventure plot. Many visual novels are dating sims, including bishōjo games. Visual novels are especially prevalent in Japan, where in the mid-2000s they made up nearly 70% of PC games released. They are rarely produced for video game consoles, but the more popular games are sometimes ported to systems such as the Dreamcast or the PlayStation 2. The market for visual novels outside Japan, was nearly non-existent prior to the success of the Nintendo DS, for which several Japanese visual novels were released in the West, such as the Ace Attorney series and the School Days series.

=== Interactive movie ===:
    The interactive movie genre came about with the invention of laserdiscs. An interactive movie contains pre-filmed full-motion cartoons or live-action sequences, where the player controls some of the moves of the main character. For example, when in danger, the player decides which move, action, or combination to choose. In these games, the only activity the player has is to choose or guess the move the designers intend him to make. Interactive movies usually differ from games that simply use full motion video, FMV, extensively between scenes in that they try to integrate it into the gameplay itself. This has been used in everything from racing games to fighting games. A few adventure game have tried to use the term to liken the storytelling of their games to those in movies, most notably the later Tex Murphy games and the more recent Fahrenheit (Indigo Prophecy), although they are more aptly classified as genre hybrids. Elements of interactive movies have been adapted for game cut scenes, in the form of Quick Time Events, to keep the player alert. Games like Resident Evil 4 present obvious in-game prompts for the player to react to. Not doing so usually results in the player character either getting hurt or outright killed.

=== Real-time 3D adventures ===:
    Around this time, real-time 3D adventure games appeared. These included Nightfall in 1998, Shenmue in 1999, realMyst in 2000, Shadow of Memories in 2001, Uru: Ages Beyond Myst in 2003 and the Yakuza franchise in 2005. They augmented traditional adventure gameplay with some of the attributes more commonly associated with action games, for example, freedom of motion and physics-based behavior.

== Puzzle ==:
    Puzzle games are for those who like to put their brain to use and find the thrill in solving puzzles. Whether simple adaptations of real-world puzzles like Sudoku or full-blown puzzle games meant to be explored in a video game environment, there's a lot of variety on offer. They test the player's problem-solving skills including logic, pattern recognition, sequence solving, and word completion. Puzzle games continue to find millions of fans, especially on mobile phones where casual games and tile-matching puzzle games are extremely popular. Puzzle games focus on logical and conceptual challenges, although some of them also include a real-time component and require quick thinking. While many action games and adventure games include puzzle elements in level design, a true puzzle game focuses on puzzle solving as its primary gameplay activity. This genre sometimes crosses over with educational games. Rather than presenting a random collection of puzzles to solve, puzzle games typically offer a series of related puzzles that are a variation on a single theme. This theme could involve pattern recognition, logic, or understanding a process. These games usually have a set of rules or mechanics, where players manipulate game pieces on a grid, network or other interaction space. Players must unravel clues in order to achieve some victory condition, which will then allow them to advance to the next level. Completing each puzzle will usually lead to a more difficult challenge.

=== Breakout clone game ===:
    Breakout clone, also known as block-breaking or ball-and-paddle, is a sub-class of the puzzle genre. This genre is named for the dynamics of the player-controlled block (called a "paddle") which the game is based on that hits a ball towards different objects such as colored tiles, special tiles and indestructible tiles, called a "brick". The term "brick buster" was coined in the early 2000s, mostly refers to more modern games. Some early examples is Arkanoid developed by Taito in 1986 and the original Breakout developed by Atari in 1976.

=== Logical game ===:
    Logical puzzle games exhibit logic and mechanisms that are consistent throughout the entire game. Solving them typically requires deductive reasoning skills.

==== Physics game ====:
    A physics game is a type of logical puzzle video game where the player must use the game's physics and environment to complete each puzzle. Physics games use consistent physics to make games more challenging. The genre is especially popular in online flash games and mobile games. Educators have used these games to demonstrate principles of physics. Popular physics-based logic puzzle games include Portal, The Talos Principle, Braid, Fez, World of Goo, Cut the Rope, and Inside. These also include projectile collision games such as Angry Birds, Peggle, Monster Strike, and Crush the Castle.

==== Programming game ====:
    A programming game is a computer game where the player has limited or no direct influence on the course of the game. Instead, a computer program or script is written in some domain-specific programming language in order to control the actions of the characters, usually robots, tanks or bacteria. In SpaceChem, for example, players design circuits used for creating molecules from raw materials. Examples include The Incredible Machine, SpaceChem, Infinifactory, and Shenzhen I/O. A few strategy games, such as Final Fantasy XII, also include some elements of a programming game, as the player can customize the playable characters' AI, although the player can also choose to directly control the action.

==== Puzzle-platform game ====:
    Puzzle platformers are characterized by their use of a platform game structure to drive a game whose challenge is derived primarily from puzzles. Enix's 1983 release Door Door and Sega's 1985 release Doki Doki Penguin Land (for the SG-1000) are perhaps the first examples, though the genre is diverse, and classifications can vary. Doki Doki Penguin Land allowed players to run and jump in typical platform fashion, but they could also destroy blocks, and were tasked with guiding an egg to the bottom of the level without letting it break. The Lost Vikings (1993) was a popular game in this genre. It has three characters players can switch between, each with different abilities. All three characters are needed to complete the level goals. Wario Land 2 moved the Wario series into the puzzle-platform genre by eliminating the element of death and adding temporary injuries, such as being squashed or lit on fire, and specialized powers.

=== Trial-and-error / exploration ===:
    This sub-genre includes point-and-click games that often exhibit similarities with adventure games and walking simulators. Unlike logical puzzle games, these games generally require inductive reasoning to solve. The defining trait is that the player must experiment with mechanisms in each level before they can solve them. Puzzle elements often do not have consistency throughout the game, and thus require guessing and checking, and exploration to reveal more of the puzzle. These include Myst, Limbo, The Dig, Monument Valley, and escape room games such as The Room.

=== Hidden object game ===:
    A hidden object game (sometimes called hidden picture or hidden object puzzle adventure (HOPA)) is a genre of puzzle video game in which the player must find items from a list that are hidden within a scene. Hidden object games are a popular trend in casual gaming, and are comparatively inexpensive to buy.  Mystery Case Files: Huntsville, released by Big Fish Games in 2005, is considered the first modern hidden objects game, coming at the rise of casual gaming in the mid-2000s.

=== Reveal the picture game ===:
    A reveal the picture game is a type of puzzle game that features piece-by-piece revealing of a photo or picture.

=== Tile-matching game ===:
    In tile-matching video games, the player manipulates tiles in order to make them disappear according to a matching criterion. The genre began with 1985's Chain Shot! and has similarities to "falling block" games such as Tetris. This genre includes games that require pieces to be swapped such as Bejeweled or Candy Crush Saga, games that adapt the classic tile-based game Mahjong such as Mahjong Trails, and games in which pieces are shot on the board such as Zuma. In many recent tile-matching games, the matching criterion is to place a given number of tiles of the same type so that they adjoin each other. That number is often three, and the corresponding subset of tile-matching games is referred to as "match-three games". Other examples include Threes and Lumines.

=== Traditional puzzle game ===:
    There have also been many digital adaptations of traditional puzzle games, including solitaire and mahjong solitaire. Even familiar word puzzles, number puzzles, and association puzzles have been adapted as games such as Dr. Kawashima's Brain Training.

== Role-playing ==:
    Role-playing video games draw their gameplay from traditional tabletop role-playing games like Dungeons & Dragons. Most of these games cast the player in the role of a character that grows in strength and experience over the course of the game. By overcoming difficult challenges and/or defeating monsters, the player gains experience points which represent the character's progress in a chosen profession or class, such as melee combat or ranged magic spells, and allow the player to gain new abilities once a set amount are obtained. Many RPGs contain an open world known as an overworld, which is usually populated with monsters, that allows access to more important game locations, such as towns, dungeons, and castles. Since the emergence of affordable home computers coincided with the popularity of paper and pencil role-playing games, this genre was one of the first in video games and continues to be popular today. Gameplay elements strongly associated with RPG, such as statistical character development through the acquisition of experience points, have been widely adapted to other genres such as action-adventure games. Though nearly all of the early entries in the genre were turn-based games, many modern role-playing games progress in real-time. Thus, the genre has followed the strategy game's trend of moving from turn-based to real-time combat. The move to real-time combat began with the release of Square's, now Square Enix's Final Fantasy IV, the first game to use the Active Time Battle system. This was quickly followed by truly real-time action role-playing games such as the Mana series, Soul Blazer and Ultima VII. Although older turn-based system still exist, such as the Golden Sun series for Game Boy Advance as well as Pokémon.

=== Action RPG ===:
    The action role-playing game (ARPG) is a type of role-playing video game which incorporates real-time combat as opposed to turn-based or menu-based, often borrowing elements from action games or action-adventure games. Some of the first action role-playing games were produced by Nihon Falcom in the 1980s, such as the Dragon Slayer series and Ys series. Later so-called "Diablo clones" are also part of this genre. Although the precise definition of the genre varies, the typical action RPG features a heavy emphasis on combat, often simplifying or removing non-combat attributes and statistics and the effect they have on the character's development. Combat always takes place using a real-time system,  hence the "action", that relies on the player's ability to perform particular actions with speed and accuracy to determine success, rather than mainly using the player character's attributes to determine this.

=== CRPG ===:
    Computer role-playing games, or CRPGs, are a style of RPG meant to mimic the gameplay of tabletop role-playing games. CRPGs represent some of the earliest RPG video games, including Dungeon and Moria, both from the mid-1970s. More modern examples include Planescape: Torment, Disco Elysium, and the Baldur's Gate series.

=== MMORPG ===:
    Massively multiplayer online role-playing games, or MMORPG, emerged in the mid to late 1990s as a commercial, graphical variant of text-based MUDs, which had existed since 1978. By and large, MMORPG feature the usual RPG objectives of completing quests and strengthening one's player character, but involve up to hundreds of players interacting with each other on the same persistent world in real-time. The massively multiplayer concept was quickly combined with other genres. Fantasy MMORPG, like Final Fantasy XI, The Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar, and The Elder Scrolls Online, remain the most popular type of MMORPG, with the most popular "pay-to-play" game being World of Warcraft, and the most popular "free-to-play" games including RuneScape and TERA, yet other types of MMORPG are appearing. Sci-fi MMORPG like Phantasy Star Online hold a smaller part of the market, with the popular space sci-fi game EVE Online being the most notable. Other massively multiplayer online games which do not have a conventional RPG setting include Second Life and Ingress.

=== Roguelikes ===:
    The roguelike video game subgenre borrows its name and gameplay elements from the 1980 computer game Rogue. Superficially, a roguelike is a two-dimensional dungeon crawl with a high degree of randomness via procedural generation, an emphasis on statistical character development, and the use of permadeath. Though traditionally featuring a text user interface, many such games utilize graphic tiles to overcome character set limitations. Newer games that move away from traditional hack-and-slash elements but otherwise keeping procedural generation and permadeath features are sometimes called "rogue-lites".

=== Tactical RPG ===:
    The tactical role-playing game subgenre principally refers to games which incorporate gameplay from strategy games as an alternative to traditional RPG systems. Like standard RPG, the player controls a finite party and battles a similar number of enemies, but this genre incorporates strategic gameplay such as tactical movement on an isometric grid. The genre has its origins in tabletop role-playing games, where each player has time to decide his or her characters' actions.

=== Sandbox RPG ===:
    Sandbox RPG or Open World RPG allow the player a large amount of freedom and usually contain a somewhat more open free-roaming, meaning that the player is not confined to a single path restricted by rocks or fences etc. world. Sandbox RPGs contain similarities to other sandbox games such as the Grand Theft Auto series, with a large number of interactable non-player characters, large amount of content and typically some of the largest worlds to explore and longest playtimes of all RPG due to an impressive amount of secondary content not critical to the game's main storyline. Sandbox RPG often attempt to emulate an entire region of their setting. Popular examples of this subgenre include the Dragon Slayer series by Nihon Falcom, the early Dragon Quest games by Chunsoft, Wasteland by Interplay Entertainment, the SaGa and Mana series by Squaresoft, System Shock 2 by Irrational Games and Looking Glass Studios, Deus Ex by Ion Storm, The Elder Scrolls and Fallout series by Bethesda Softworks and Interplay Entertainment, Fable by Lionhead Studios, the Gothic series by Piranha Bytes, and the Xenoblade Chronicles series by Monolith Soft.

=== First-person party-based RPG ===:
    Also known as DRPG (Dungeon RPG), this subgenre consists of RPGs where the player leads a party of adventurers in first-person perspective through a dungeon or labyrinth, typically in a grid-based environment. Examples include the aforementioned Wizardry, Might and Magic and Bard's Tale series, as well as the Etrian Odyssey and Elminage series. Games of this type are also known as "blobbers", since the player moves the entire party around the playing field as a single unit, or "blob". Most "blobbers" are turn-based, but some titles such as the Dungeon Master, Legend of Grimrock, and Eye of the Beholder series are played in real-time. Early games in this genre lack an automap feature, forcing players to draw their own maps in order to keep track of their progress. Environmental and spatial puzzles are common, meaning players may have to, for instance, move a stone in one part of the level in order to open a gate in another part of the level.

=== Monster Tamer ===:
    A variant of the RPG formula where the player recruits monsters to fight for or alongside them. Collected creatures can often be raised or bred to create stronger monsters or to increase their abilities in battle. An example of a monster tamer game is Pokémon.

== Simulation ==:
    Simulation video games is a diverse super-category of games, generally designed to closely simulate aspects of a real or fictional reality.

=== Construction and management simulation ===:
    Construction and management simulations, or CMS, are a type of simulation game which task players to build, expand or manage fictional communities or projects with limited resources. In city-building games the player acts as overall planner or leader to meet the needs and wants of game characters by initiating structures for food, shelter, health, spiritual care, economic growth, etc. Success is achieved when the city budget makes a growing profit and citizens experience an upgraded lifestyle in housing, health, and goods. While military development is often included, the emphasis is on economic strength. Perhaps the most known game of this type is SimCity, which has had great influence on later city-building games like Cities: Skylines. SimCity also belongs to the God Games genre, since it gives the player god-like abilities in manipulating the world. Caesar was a long-running series in this genre, with the original game spawning three sequels. Business simulation games generally attempt to simulate an economy or business, with the player controlling the economy of the game. A government simulation game, or "political game", involves the simulation of the policies, government or politics of a country, but typically excludes warfare. Recently, these types of games have gained the moniker "serious game".

=== Life simulation ===:
    Life simulation games, or artificial life games, involve living or controlling one or more artificial lives. A life simulation game can revolve around individuals and relationships, or it could be a simulation of an ecosystem. Biological simulations may allow the player to experiment with genetics, survival or ecosystems, often in the form of an educational package. An early example is SimLife, while relatively recent ones are Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis and Spore. In other educational simulations such as Wolf, the player "lives the life" of an individual animal in a relatively realistic way. Hailed as one of the greatest life simulation games, is Creatures, Creatures 2, Creatures 3, where the player breeds generations of a species in a hugely detailed ecosystem. Unlike other genres of games, god games often do not have a set goal that allows a player to win the game. The focus of a god game tends to be control over the lives of people, anywhere from micromanaging a family to overseeing the rise of a civilization. Pet-raising simulations, or digital pets, focus more on the relationship between the player and one or few life forms. They are often more limited in scope than other biological simulations. This includes popular examples of virtual pets such as Tamagotchi and the Petz series. Social simulation games base their gameplay on the social interaction between multiple artificial lives. The most famous example from this genre is Will Wright's The Sims. Dating sims and Romance simulation games fall under this category.

=== Vehicle simulation ===:
    Vehicle simulation games are a genre of video games which attempt to provide the player with a realistic interpretation of operating various kinds of vehicles. Flight simulation tasks the player with flying an aircraft, usually an airplane, as realistically as possible. Combat flight simulators are the most popular subgenre of simulation. The player controls the plane, simulating the act of flying, and combat situations. There are also civilian flight simulators that do not have the combat aspect. Racing games typically place the player in the driver's seat of a high-performance vehicle and require the player to race against other drivers or sometimes just the clock. This genre of games is one of the staples of the computer gaming world and many of the earliest computer games created were part of this genre. Emerging in the late 1970s, this genre is still very popular today and continues to push the envelope in terms of graphics and performance. These games "tend to fall into organized racing and imaginary racing categories". Organized racing simulators attempt to "reproduce the experience of driving a racing car or motorcycle in an existing racing class: Indycar, NASCAR, Formula 1, and so on." Imaginary racing games involve "imaginary situations, driving madly through cities or the countryside or even fantasy environments". These "imaginary" racing games are sometimes called arcade racing games, in contrast to their more realistic "racing simulation" counterparts. These include Need For Speed, Crash Team Racing and Gran Turismo. Rollings and Adams note that "racing games are often sold in the sports category," but "from a design standpoint, they really belong in ... vehicle simulations". Space flight simulator games are a subgenre that involve piloting a spacecraft. Space simulators are different from other subgenres, and are not generally considered to be simulators, as their simulated objects do not always exist and often disregard the laws of physics, with exceptions like Orbiter and Kerbal Space Program. Train simulators simulate the vehicles, environments and often economics associated with railway transport. These are frequently historical in nature, reminiscing on the evolution and emergence of the railroad in various countries and the economic booms that often accompanied them. Vehicular combat or car combat games focus on fast-paced action, as the player operates a car or other vehicle and attempts to disable or destroy CPU or human opponents. Vehicular combat games often allow a player to choose from a variety of potential vehicles, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. Vehicular combat was born out of racing/shooter combinations like Spy Hunter, RoadBlasters, and Rock 'N' Roll Racing, but differs in that the players can, if desired, take their vehicles off predefined routes and do battle wherever they please. A subgenre of vehicular combat is Mecha combat, where vehicles generally include giant robot-like tanks.

== Strategy ==:
    Strategy video games focus on gameplay requiring careful and skillful thinking and planning in order to achieve victory and the action scales from world domination to squad-based tactics. "In most strategy video games," says Andrew Rollings, "the player is given a godlike view of the game world, indirectly controlling the units under his command". Rollings notes that "The origin of strategy games is rooted in their close cousins, board games." Strategy video games generally take one of four archetypal forms, depending on whether the game is turn-based or real-time and whether the game's focus is upon strategy or tactics. Real time strategy games are often a multiple unit selection game. Multiple game characters can be selected at once to perform different tasks, as opposed to only selecting one character at a time, with a sky view, looking down from above. Some recent games such as Tom Clancy's EndWar, are single unit selection and third person view. Like many RPG games, many strategy games are gradually moving away from turn-based systems, to more real-time systems.

=== 4X game ===:
    4X refers to a genre of strategy video game with four primary goals: eXplore, eXpand, eXploit, and eXterminate. A 4X game can be turn-based or real-time. Perhaps the best known example of this genre is Sid Meier's Civilization series. 4X games often cover a very large period of time, giving the player the control of an entire civilization or species. Typically these games have a historical setting, encompassing a large amount of human history (Empire Earth, Civilization, Golden Age of Civilizations) or a science fiction setting where the player controls a species set to dominate the galaxy (Master of Orion, Galactic Civilizations).

=== Artillery game ===:
    Artillery is the generic name for early two or three-player, usually turn-based, computer games involving tanks fighting each other in combat or similar derivative games. Artillery games were among the earliest computer games developed and can be considered an extension of the original use of computers, which were once used for military-based calculations such as plotting the trajectories of rockets. Artillery games are considered a type of turn-based tactics game. They have also been described as a type of "shooting game". Examples of this genre are Pocket Tanks, Hogs of War, Scorched 3D and the Worms series.

=== Auto battler (Auto chess) ===:
    Auto battler, also known as "auto chess", is a type of strategy game that features chess-like elements where players place characters on a grid-shaped battlefield during a preparation phase, who then fight the opposing team's characters without any further direct input from the player. It was created and popularized by Dota Auto Chess in early 2019, and saw more games in the genre by other studios, such as Teamfight Tactics, Dota Underlords, and Hearthstone Battlegrounds releasing soon after.

=== Multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) ===:
    Multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) is a genre of strategy video games where two teams of players compete to destroy the opposing team's main structure while defending their own. Players control characters called "heroes" or "champions" with unique abilities, and are aided by computer-controlled units that march along set paths (called "lanes") toward the enemy base. The first team to destroy the enemy's base wins. MOBA games combine elements of real-time strategy, role-playing, and action games, focusing on team coordination, character progression, and fast-paced combat. Unlike traditional real-time strategy games, players do not build structures or units. The genre gained popularity in the early 2010s, with Defense of the Ancients mod for Warcraft III, League of Legends, Dota 2, Heroes of the Storm, and Smite. MOBA games are well-represented in esports, with prize pools reaching tens of millions of dollars.

=== Real-time strategy (RTS) ===:
    The moniker "real-time strategy" (RTS), indicates that the action in the game is continuous, and players will have to make their decisions and actions within the backdrop of a constantly changing game state. This genre is probably the most well known of strategy games, and is what most websites mean when they say "strategy games". Real-time strategy gameplay is characterised by obtaining resources, building bases, researching technologies and producing units. Blizzard Entertainment's StarCraft is a popular RTS played competitively in South Korea and televised to large audiences. Other notable games include the Warcraft series, Age of Empires series, Dawn of War, Company of Heroes, Command and Conquer, and Dune II, essentially the first RTS game. Outside of PCs, very few strategy games are real-time. A few examples are Battle for Middle-earth II, Pikmin and Halo Wars. Even fewer ones use physical pieces, such as Icehouse.

=== Real-time tactics (RTT) ===:
    Real-time tactics, abbreviated RTT and less commonly referred to as "fixed-unit real-time strategy", is a subgenre of tactical wargames played in real-time, simulating the considerations and circumstances of operational warfare and military tactics. It is sometimes considered a subgenre of real-time strategy, and may in this context exist as an element of gameplay or as a basis for the whole game. It is differentiated from real-time strategy gameplay by the lack of resource micromanagement and base or unit building, as well as the greater importance of individual units and a focus on complex battlefield tactics. Example titles include Warhammer: Dark Omen, World In Conflict, the Close Combat series, and early tactical role-playing games such as Bokosuka Wars, Silver Ghost, and First Queen.

=== Tower defense ===:
    Tower defense games have a very simple layout. Usually, computer-controlled monsters move along a set path, and the player must place, or "build" towers along this path to kill the enemies. In some games, towers are placed along a set path for the enemies, while in others towers can interrupt enemy movement and change their path. In most tower defense games, different towers have different abilities such as poisoning enemies or slowing them down. The player is awarded money for killing enemies. This money can be used to buy more towers, or buy upgrades for a tower, such as increased power or range.

=== Turn-based strategy (TBS) ===:
    The term turn-based strategy (TBS) is usually reserved for certain computer strategy games, to distinguish them from real-time strategy games. A player of a turn-based game is allowed a period of analysis before committing to a game action. Some games allow a certain number of moves or actions to take place in a turn. Like real-time strategy games, this genre can include many strategy games which are not solely turn-based games, and games which may contain other features not related to whether the game is turn-based or not. Examples of this genre are the Civilization, Heroes of Might and Magic, Making History, and Master of Orion. Some recent turn-based strategy games feature a different gameplay mechanic, with a simultaneous resolution of the turns. Every player prepares their future actions in the planning phase, then lets the game follow the orders given at the same time. This causes orders to be interrupted by the opponents actions, changing the gameplay from reacting to the opponent's action, into guessing them.

=== Turn-based tactics (TBT) ===:
    The gameplay of turn-based tactics games (TBT) is characterized by the expectation of players to complete their tasks using the combat forces provided to them, and usually by the provision of a realistic, or at least believable, representation of military tactics and operations. Examples of this genre include the Wars, Jagged Alliance and X-COM series, as well as tactical role-playing games such as the Fire Emblem and Final Fantasy Tactics.

=== Wargame ===:
    Wargames are a subgenre of strategy video games that emphasize strategic or tactical warfare on a map. Wargames generally take one of four archetypal forms, depending on whether the game is turn-based or real-time, and whether the game's focus is upon military strategy or tactics.

=== Grand strategy wargame ===:
    A grand strategy wargame is a wargame that places focus on grand strategy: military strategy at the level of movement and use of an entire nation state or empire's resources. An example of this is the Hearts of Iron franchise.

== Sports ==:
    Sports games simulate the rules and gameplay of real life sports to varying degrees of accuracy. The opposing team(s) can be controlled by other players or by artificial intelligence.

=== Racing ===:
    Racing games involve characters competing in races (typically with vehicles, although games like Sonic R and Mad Dash Racing focus on foot racing). Racing games have multiple subgenres, such as kart racers (which tend to involve go-karts, power-up items and are usually themed around popular media franchises, such as Mario Kart), arcade racers (featuring a fast-paced experience and far more liberal physics, most Need for Speed games serving as an example), and sim racers (which attempt to accurately simulate the operation of real motor vehicles, such as Gran Turismo and Forza Motorsport).

=== Sports game ===:
    Sports games emulate the playing of traditional physical sports. While most sports games have players control the competitors directly, others simulate the coaching and managenent of teams, such as Championship Manager. Others satirize the sport for comedic effect, such as Arch Rivals. One of the best selling series in this genre is the FIFA series. This genre emerged early in the history of video games (with Pong being a notable example).

=== Competitive ===:
    Competitive games are those that have a high competitive factor but do not represent traditional sports, such as games in which the concept is fictional and designed by the developer (such as Ball Jacks and Rocket League).

=== Sports-based fighting ===:
    Sports-based fighting games are titles that simulate combat sports, but are distinct from the fighting genre due to their focus on realism. Examples of this subgenre include the Fight Night, UFC and WWE 2K series.

== MMO ==:
    A massively multiplayer online game, also called MMO and MMOG, is a multiplayer online video game which is capable of supporting large numbers of players simultaneously. By necessity, they are played on the Internet. Many games have at least one persistent world. Others just have large numbers of players competing at once, in one form or another, without any lasting effect to the world at all. These games can be found for most network-capable platforms, including the personal computer, video game console, or smartphones and other mobile devices. An example is the widely played game Minecraft which can be played both as an MMO or a single player game. MMO games can enable players to cooperate and compete with each other on a large scale, and sometimes to interact meaningfully with people around the world. They include a variety of gameplay types, representing many video game genres, such as MMORPG, MMOFPS, MMORTS, MMOTBS and MMO simulation games.

=== Board game or card game ===:
    Many popular board games and card games have computer versions. AI opponents can help improve one's skill at traditional games. Chess, Checkers, Othello (also known as Reversi), and Backgammon have world class computer programs. Mahjong and related games are immensely popular in China and Japan. Go is popular in East Asia, though it is notoriously difficult to program a computer to play Go well.

=== Parental Sim ===:
    In a Parental Sim the player is put into a position of parental authority over one or multiple NPCs, often with the goal of fostering said NPCs growth and development either in the pursuit of the game's directive or simply for the pursuit of the NPCs own happiness and fulfillment. This style of game is usually a single gamemode adjacent to a larger game with different genres. Examples of this type of genre can be found in the game Plants vs Zombies or in the Sonic Adventure game series.

=== Casino game ===:
    There are three general categories of casino games: gaming machines, table games, and random number games. Gaming machines, such as the slot machine and pachinko, are usually played by one player at a time and do not require the involvement of players to play. Tables games, such as blackjack or craps, involve one or more players who are competing against the house, the casino itself, rather than each other. Random number games may be played at a table or through the purchase of paper tickets or cards, such as keno or bingo.

=== Digital collectible card game ===:
    A digital collectible card game (DCCG) is a computer or video game usually played online that emulates collectible card games (CCG), or in many cases, doesn't use card-like images at all, but instead icons, avatars or other symbols to represent game pieces. Originally, DCCGs started out as replications of a CCG's physical counterpart such as Magic: The Gathering, but many DCCGs have foregone a physical version and exclusively release as a video game, such as with Hearthstone.

=== Digital therapeutic video game ===:
    A digital therapeutic video game is a digital treatment for a cognitive impairment, such as ADHD, delivered through the experience of a video game. These video games create immersive engagement that activates the brain networks selectively in order to improve cognitive function with strengthening over time. Games like EndeavorRx and EndeavorOTC present specific sensory stimuli and simultaneous motor challenges to the user or patient in order to target neural systems in the brain related to paying attention and sustaining focus. The efficacy of these treatments have been rigorously evaluated across multiple clinical studies for those diagnosed with ADHD, validating the benefit to users.

=== Gacha game ===:
    Gacha games are video games that implement the gacha (toy vending machine) mechanic. Similar to loot boxes, gacha games induce players to spend in-game currency to receive a random virtual item. Most of these games are free-to-play mobile games, where the gacha serves as an incentive to spend real-world money.

=== Horror game ===:
    Horror games are games that incorporate elements of horror fiction into their narrative, generally irrespective of the type of gameplay. It is one of the few major video game categories that are recognized by narrative elements rather than by gameplay, gameplay mode, or platform. Survival horror is a subgenre of horror games focused on action-adventure style of gameplay.

=== Idle game ===:
    In an IGN article, Cookie Clicker is credited as one of the few games to have played a major role in the establishment of the genre of idle gaming. This genre involves games that orient the player with a trivial task, such as clicking a cookie; and as the game progresses, the player is gradually rewarded certain upgrades for completing said task. In all, these games require very little involvement from the player, and in most cases they play themselves; hence the use of the word "idle". In early 2014, Orteil released an early version of Idle Game Maker, a tool allowing customized idle games to be made without coding knowledge.

=== Party game ===:
    Party games are video games developed specifically for multiplayer games between many players. Normally, party games have a variety of mini-games that range between collecting more of a certain item than other players or having the fastest time at something. Such games include the Mario Party series, Crash Bash, and Rayman Raving Rabbids. Versus multiplayer games are not generally considered to be party games.

=== Photography game ===:
    A photography game tasks players with taking photos using the in-game camera system, typically awarding more points for better composed images. Photography mechanics are often implemented as sidequests in games in other genres, but there are also games where photography is the main gameplay mode. These include Pokémon Snap, Afrika and the Fatal Frame series.

=== Social deduction game ===:
    A social deduction game is a game in which players attempt to uncover each other's hidden role or team allegiance. During gameplay, players can use logic and deductive reasoning to try to deduce one another's roles, while other players can bluff to keep players from suspecting them. A notable example of the social deduction video game is Among Us, which received a massive influx of popularity in 2020 due to many well-known Twitch streamers and YouTubers playing it.

=== Trivia game ===:
    Trivia games are growing in popularity, especially on mobile phones where people may only have a few minutes to play the game. In trivia games, the object is to answer questions with the goal of obtaining points. They may be based on real-life trivia game shows such as Are You Smarter than a 5th Grader? or Family Feud.

=== Typing game ===:
    A typing game is any game that uses typing as the main method of interaction. While they initially started as a type of educational game, they later became more entertainment focused as indie developers explored possibilities within the genre.

== Video game genres by purpose ==:
    While most video games are designed as entertainment, many video games are designed with additional purposes. These purposes are as varied as the nature of information itself—to inform, persuade, or stimulate. These games can have any kind of gameplay, from puzzles to action to adventure.

=== Advergame ===:
    Advergames, in the context of video game genres, refers to promotional software specifically made to advertise a product, organization or viewpoint. The first advergames were distributed on floppy disk by the Chef Boyardee, Coca-Cola, and Samsung brands, while the first cereal box advergame was Chex Quest in 1996. The majority of advergames are found online and mostly include simple and cheaply made Flash games. Some advergames were released to consoles, like Pepsiman for Sony PlayStation.

=== Art game ===:
    Art games are designed so as to emphasize art or whose structures are intended to produce some kind of non-ludological reaction in its audience. Art games typically go out of their way to have a unique, unconventional look, often standing out for aesthetic beauty or complexity in design. This concept extends to the realm of modified ("modded") gaming when modifications have been made to existing non-art-games to produce graphic results intended to be viewed as an artistic display, as opposed to modifications intended to change game play scenarios or for storytelling. Modified games created for artistic purposes are sometimes referred to as "videogame art."

=== Casual game ===:
    Casual games are designed to be easily picked up and put down again with relatively low time commitment, allowing for potentially short bursts of play. This genre of gaming is meant to be a short and relaxing pastime, a rest in between other occupations and so is most popular with demographics who have less free time. They usually have very simple rules or play techniques and a very low degree of strategy. They have no lengthy tutorials and require no special skills, making them easy to learn and play as a pastime. Retaining players involves a lot of careful design of levels, challenges and events. Market leaders in this genre are often boldly coloured, designed for intuitive interaction and have a high balance of reward to time to keep people coming back. Designers of these games should add a lot of "juice" (sound and motion elements that excite the senses) to make them stand out in a sea of highly similar games. Casual games typically are played in web browsers or on mobile devices, although they now are starting to become popular on game consoles. The games often have auto-saving and syncing as standard so the games can be minimized, put into sleep, or otherwise put down with no loss to the player. There are comparatively low production and distribution costs for the producer.

=== Christian game ===:
    Christian games attempt to provide the dual purposes of spreading the Christian religion to non-believers through the medium of video games, and providing gamers who identify as Christian with a common pool of games. Christian video games were first developed by Wisdom Tree for the NES, without license. While largely regarded as derivative titles by the mainstream gaming culture, Christian games have nevertheless expanded in distribution since their inception.

=== Educational game ===:
    Educational games, as the name implies, attempt to teach the user using the game as a vehicle. Most of these types of games target young users from the ages of about three years to mid-teens; past the mid-teens, subjects become so complex (e.g. Calculus) that teaching via a game is generally impractical, though exceptions do exist in some areas, such as programming. Numerous subgenres exist, in fields such as math or typing.

=== Esports ===:
    Esports games are multiplayer games that are usually played competitively at the professional level. These games are often targeted at the "hardcore" gaming audience, and are usually first-person shooter games, requiring twitch-based reaction speed and coordination, or real-time strategy games, requiring high levels of strategic macro- and micromanagement, or MOBAs, requiring both.

=== Exergame (Fitness Game) ===:
    An exergame (portmanteau of "exercise" and "game") is a video game that provides exercise. "Exergames" sub-divide into two main implementations, those with a game specifically designed to use an exercise input device (for example, the game Wii Fit using the Wii Balance Board) and those implementations using a genre of a game. Games fit into the category of entertainment, and similarly "exergames" are a category of "exertainment" (formed from "exercise" and "entertainment"). "Exertainment" refers to one aspect of adding entertainment to an exercise workout.

=== Personalized game ===:
    Personalized games are created for one specific player or a group of players usually as a gift. They are hand-made to feature real names, places and events from the recipient's life. Usual occasions for such games are birthdays, anniversaries, and engagement proposals.

=== Serious game ===:
    Serious games are intended to educate or train the player. These games tend to promote "education, science, social change, health care or even the military". Some of these games have no specific ending or goal in the game. Rather, the player learns a real life lesson from the game. For example, games from websites such as Newsgaming.com and gamesforchange.org raise political issues using the distinct properties of games.

=== Live Interactive Game ===:
    Live interactive games, also known as bullet screen interactive game, are a genre of games built on live streaming platforms. During a live broadcast, the host initiates the game, and viewers can participate by forming teams, giving likes, sending gifts, and posting comments. The barrage mechanism translates these signals into in-game resources or effects, transforming the live broadcast from a one-to-many format to a space where viewers can also interact with each other.

== Sandbox / open world games ==:
    Sandbox and open-world games are not specifically video game genres, as they generally describe gameplay features, but often games will be described as a sandbox or an open-world game as if it were a defining genre. They are included here for such distinguishing purposes.

=== Sandbox ===:
    A sandbox game is a video game with a gameplay element that gives the player a great degree of creativity to complete tasks towards a goal within the game, if such a goal exists. Some games exist as pure sandbox games with no objectives; these are also known as non-games or software toys. More commonly, sandbox games results from these creative elements being incorporated into other genres and allowing for emergent gameplay. Sandbox games are often associated with open world concepts which gives the player freedom of movement and progression in the game's world. The "sandbox" term derives from the nature of a sandbox that lets children create nearly anything they want within it. Early sandbox games came out of space trading and combat games like Elite (1984) and city-building simulations and tycoon games like SimCity (1989). The releases of The Sims and Grand Theft Auto III in 2000 and 2001, respectively, demonstrated that games with highly detailed interacting systems that encouraged player experimentation could also be seen as sandbox games. Sandbox games also found ground with the ability to interact socially and share user-generated content across the Internet like Second Life (2003). Minecraft (2011) is the most successful example of a sandbox game, with players able to enjoy in both creative modes and through more goal-driven survival modes.

=== Creative ===:
    Creative games are games that are often grounded into other genres but have certain modes of gameplay that allow for a Sandbox and/or Openworld Gameplay, It is extremely common for a "Creative" Game mode to use the same aspects, assets, mechanics, etc. of the Parent Game. However, this isn't always the case as some games have used assets unavailable in the normal Game. Story/Narrative is often removed or non-existent in these modes. However, while generally rare, creative modes have been seen to have an independent story from the main game or even be an entirely independent game.

=== Open world ===:
    In video games, an open world is a game mechanic of using a virtual world that the player can explore and approach objectives freely, as opposed to a world with more linear and structured gameplay. While games have used open-world designs since the 1980s, the implementation in Grand Theft Auto III (2001) set a standard that has been used since. Games with open or free-roaming worlds typically lack level structures like walls and locked doors, or the invisible walls in more open areas that prevent the player from venturing beyond them; only at the bounds of an open-world game will players be limited by geographic features like vast oceans or impassible mountains. Players typically do not encounter loading screens common in linear level designs when moving about the game world, with the open-world game using strategic storage and memory techniques to load the game world in a dynamic and seamless manner. Open-world games still enforce many restrictions in the game environment, either because of absolute technical limitations or in-game limitations imposed by a game's linearity. While the openness of the game world is an important facet to games featuring open worlds, the main draw of open-world games is about providing the player with autonomy – not so much the freedom to do anything they want in the game, which is nearly impossible with current computing technology, but the ability to choose how to approach the game and its challenges in the order and manner as the player desires while still constrained by gameplay rules. Examples of high level of autonomy in computer games can be found in massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPG) or in single-player games adhering to the open-world concept such as the Fallout series. The main appeal of open-world gameplay is that they provide a simulated reality and allow players to develop their character and its behaviour in the direction and the pace of their own choosing. In these cases, there is often no concrete goal or end to the game, although there may be the main storyline, such as with games like The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim.

== Scientific studies ==:
    As video games are increasingly the subject of scientific studies, game genres are themselves becoming a subject of study. An early attempt at analysis of the action and adventure genres appeared in a Game Developers Conference 2000 paper 'Mostly Armless: Grabbing the 3D World'. This critiqued a variety of adventure and action games to categorize gameplay and interaction for adventure, action, and hybrid genres. It provided a graph of the genres along the axes of 'immediacy' vs 'complexity', with an 'ideal-zone' for gameplay that covered and linked adventure and action games. It detailed various interaction styles present in these genres and extrapolated to future user interface and gameplay possibilities for these and other genres. Some of these have since been adopted by persistent worlds. For example, Second Life uses some of the gameplay investment and interface elements described in section 4 of the paper. In a University of Queensland study, game enjoyment was correlated with attributes such as immersion, social interaction, and the nature of the goals. These may be underlying factors in differentiating game genres. Statistical scaling techniques were used in a study presented at the 2007 Siggraph Video Game Symposium to convert subject ratings of game similarity into visual maps of game genres. The maps reproduced some of the commonly identified genres such as first-person shooters and god games. A Michigan State University study found that men have a higher preference for genres that require competition and three-dimensional navigation and manipulation than women do.

== References ==:
    Rollings, Andrew; Adams, Ernest (May 11, 2003). Andrew Rollings and Ernest Adams on Game Design. New Riders Games. ISBN 978-1-59273-001-8.

== Bibliography ==:
    Adams, Ernest (2013). Fundamentals of Game Design (3rd ed.). San Francisco: New Riders. ISBN 978-0-321-92967-9. Adams, Ernest (2014). Fundamentals of Action and Arcade Game Design. San Francisco: New Riders. ISBN 978-0-13-381130-8. Adams, Ernest (2015). Fundamentals of Shooter Game Design. San Francisco: New Riders. ISBN 978-0-13-381094-3. Wolf, Mark, J. P. (2012). Encyclopedia of video games : the culture, technology, and art of gaming. Vol. 1. Santa Barbara, California: ABC-CLIO. ISBN 978-0313379369.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) Rogers, Scott (2014). Level Up! The Guide to Great Video Game Design (2nd ed.). Chichester, England: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-1-118-87716-6. Call, Joshua; Whitlock, Katie; Voorhees, Gerald A. (2012). Guns, Grenades, and Grunts: First-Person Shooter Games. London: Bloomsbury Publishing. ISBN 9781441193537. Barton, Matt; Loguidice, Bill (2009). Vintage Games. Boston: Focal Press. ISBN 978-0-240-81146-8.

== Overview ==:
    Games are produced through the software development process. They are created both as a form of artistic expression and a commercial product intended to generate profit. Game development is often described as a blend of art and science, reflecting the technical precision and creative design required. Development is normally funded by a publisher, and careful budget estimation is critical to success. Poor planning may cause projects to exceed budgets or fail to meet expectations. In fact, the majority of commercial games do not produce profit. Most developers therefore plan their production schedule carefully to balance creative goals with available resources. The game industry requires innovations, as publishers cannot profit from the constant release of repetitive sequels and imitations. Every year new independent development companies open and some manage to develop hit titles. Similarly, many developers close down because they cannot find a publishing contract or their production is not profitable. It is difficult to start a new company due to the high initial investment required. Nevertheless, the growth of the casual and mobile game market has allowed developers with smaller teams to enter the market. Once the companies become financially stable, they may expand to develop larger games. Most developers start small and gradually expand their business.  A developer receiving profit from a successful title may store up capital to expand and re-factor their company, as well as tolerate more failed deadlines. An average development budget for a multiplatform game is US$18-28M, with high-profile games often exceeding $40M. In the early era of home computers and video game consoles in the early 1980s, a single programmer could handle almost all the tasks of developing a game — programming, graphical design, sound effects, etc. It could take as little as six weeks to develop a game. However, the high user expectations and requirements of modern commercial games far exceed the capabilities of a single developer and require the splitting of responsibilities. A team of over a hundred people can be employed full-time for a single project. Game development, production, or design is a process that starts from an idea or concept. Often the idea is based on a modification of an existing game concept. The game idea may fall within one or several genres. Designers often experiment with different combinations of genres. A game designer generally writes an initial game proposal document, that describes the basic concept, gameplay, feature list, setting and story, target audience, requirements and schedule, and finally staff and budget estimates. Different companies have different formal procedures and philosophies regarding game design and development. There is no standardized development method; however commonalities exist. A game developer may range from a single individual to a large multinational company. There are both independent and publisher-owned studios. Independent developers rely on financial support from a game publisher. They usually have to develop a game from concept to prototype without external funding. The formal game proposal is then submitted to publishers, who may finance the game development from several months to years. The publisher would retain exclusive rights to distribute and market the game and would often own the intellectual property rights for the game franchise. The publisher may also own the development studio, or it may have internal development studio(s). Generally the publisher is the one who owns the game's intellectual property rights. Many larger development companies work on several titles at once. This is necessary because of the time taken between shipping a game and receiving royalty payments, which may be between 6 and 18 months. Small companies may structure contracts, ask for advances on royalties, use shareware distribution, employ part-time workers and use other methods to meet payroll demands. Console manufacturers, such as Microsoft, Nintendo, or Sony, have a standard set of technical requirements that a game must conform to in order to be approved. Additionally, the game concept must be approved by the manufacturer, who may refuse to approve certain titles. Most modern PC or console games take from three to five years to complete, whereas a mobile game can be developed in a few months. The length of development is influenced by a number of factors, such as genre, scale, development platform and number of assets. Some games can take much longer than the average time frame to complete. An infamous example is 3D Realms' Duke Nukem Forever, announced to be in production in April 1997 and released fourteen years later in June 2011. Planning for Maxis' game Spore began in late 1999; the game was released nine years later in September 2008. The game Prey was briefly profiled in a 1997 issue of PC Gamer, but was not released until 2006, and only then in highly altered form. Finally, Team Fortress 2 was in development from 1998 until its 2007 release, and emerged from a convoluted development process involving "probably three or four different games", according to Gabe Newell. The game revenue from retail is divided among the parties along the distribution chain, such as — developer, publisher, retail, manufacturer and console royalty. Many developers fail to profit from this and go bankrupt. Many seek alternative economic models through Internet marketing and distribution channels to improve returns, as through a mobile distribution channel the share of a developer can be up to 70% of the total revenue and through an online distribution channel owned by the developer almost 100%.

== History ==:
    The history of game making begins with the development of the first video games, although which video game is the first depends on the definition of video game. The first games created had little entertainment value, and their development focus was separate from user experience—in fact, these games required mainframe computers to play them. OXO, written by Alexander S. Douglas in 1952, was the first computer game to use a digital display.  In 1958, a game called Tennis for Two, which displayed its output on an oscilloscope, was made by Willy Higinbotham, a physicist working at the Brookhaven National Laboratory.  In 1961, a mainframe computer game called Spacewar! was developed by a group of Massachusetts Institute of Technology students led by Steve Russell. True commercial design and development of games began in the 1970s, when arcade video games and first-generation consoles were marketed. In 1971, Computer Space was the first commercially sold, coin-operated video game. It used a black-and-white television for its display, and the computer system was made of 74 series TTL chips. In 1972, the first home console system was released called Magnavox Odyssey, developed by Ralph H. Baer. That same year, Atari released Pong, an arcade game that increased video game popularity. The commercial success of Pong led other companies to develop Pong clones, spawning the video game industry. Programmers worked within the big companies to produce games for these devices. The industry did not see huge innovation in game design and a large number of consoles had very similar games. Many of these early games were often Pong clones. Some games were different, however, such as Gun Fight, which was significant for several reasons: an early 1975 on-foot, multi-directional shooter, which depicted game characters, game violence, and human-to-human combat. Tomohiro Nishikado's original version was based on discrete logic, which Dave Nutting adapted using the Intel 8080, making it the first video game to use a microprocessor. Console manufacturers soon started to produce consoles that were able to play independently developed games, and ran on microprocessors, marking the beginning of second-generation consoles, beginning with the release of the Fairchild Channel F in 1976. The flood of Pong clones led to the video game crash of 1977, which eventually came to an end with the mainstream success of Taito's 1978 arcade shooter game Space Invaders, marking the beginning of the golden age of arcade video games and inspiring dozens of manufacturers to enter the market. Its creator Nishikado not only designed and programmed the game, but also did the artwork, engineered the arcade hardware, and put together a microcomputer from scratch. It was soon ported to the Atari 2600, becoming the first "killer app" and quadrupling the console's sales. At the same time, home computers appeared on the market, allowing individual programmers and hobbyists to develop games. This allowed hardware manufacturer and software manufacturers to act separately. A very large number of games could be produced by an individual, as games were easy to make because graphical and memory limitation did not allow for much content. Larger companies developed, who focused selected teams to work on a title. The developers of many early home video games, such as Zork, Baseball, Air Warrior, and Adventure, later transitioned their work as products of the early video game industry. The industry expanded significantly at the time, with the arcade video game sector alone (representing the largest share of the gaming industry) generating higher revenues than both pop music and Hollywood films combined. The home video game industry, however, suffered major losses following the video game crash of 1983. In 1984 Jon Freeman warned in Computer Gaming World:

Q: Are computer games the way to fame and fortune?:
    A: No. Not unless your idea of fame is having your name recognized by one or two astute individuals at Origins ... I've been making a living (after a fashion) designing games for most of the last six years. I wouldn't recommend it for someone with a weak heart or a large appetite, though. Chris Crawford and Don Daglow in 1987 similarly advised prospective designers to write games as a hobby first, and to not quit their existing jobs early. The home video game industry was revitalized soon after by the widespread success of the Nintendo Entertainment System. Compute!'s Gazette in 1986 stated that although individuals developed most early video games, "It's impossible for one person to have the multiple talents necessary to create a good game". By 1987 a video game required 12 months to develop and another six to plan marketing. Projects remained usually solo efforts, with single developers delivering finished games to their publishers. With the ever-increasing processing and graphical capabilities of arcade, console, and computer products, along with an increase in user expectations, game design moved beyond the scope of a single developer to produce a marketable game. The Gazette stated, "The process of writing a game involves coming up with an original, entertaining concept, having the skill to bring it to fruition through good, efficient programming, and also being a fairly respectable artist". This sparked the beginning of team-based development. In broad terms, during the 1980s, pre-production involved sketches and test routines of the only developer. In the 1990s, pre-production consisted mostly of game art previews. In the early 2000s, pre-production usually produced a playable demo. In 2000 a 12 to 36 month development project was funded by a publisher for US$1M–3M. Additionally, $250k–1.5M were spent on marketing and sales development. In 2001, over 3000 games were released for PC; and from about 100 games turning profit only about 50 made significant profit. In the early 2000s it became increasingly common to use middleware game engines, such as Quake engine or Unreal Engine. In the early 2000s, also mobile games started to gain popularity. However, mobile games distributed by mobile operators remained a marginal form of gaming until the Apple App Store was launched in 2008. In 2005, a mainstream console video game cost from US$3M to $6M to develop. Some games cost as much as $20M to develop. In 2006 the profit from a console game sold at retail was divided among parties of distribution chain as follows: developer (13%), publisher (32%), retail (32%), manufacturer (5%), console royalty (18%). In 2008 a developer would retain around 17% of retail price and around 85% if sold online. Since the third generation of consoles, the home video game industry has constantly increased and expanded. The industry revenue has increased at least five-fold since the 1990s. In 2007, the software portion of video game revenue was $9.5 billion, exceeding that of the movie industry. The Apple App Store, introduced in 2008, was the first mobile application store operated directly by the mobile-platform holder. It significantly changed the consumer behaviour more favourable for downloading mobile content and quickly broadened the markets of mobile games. In 2009 games' market annual value was estimated between $7–30 billion, depending on which sales figures are included. This is on par with films' box office market. A publisher would typically fund an independent developer for $500k–$5M for a development of a title. In 2012, the total value had already reached $66.3 billion and by then the video game markets were no longer dominated by console games. According to Newzoo, the share of MMO's was 19.8%, PC/MAC's 9.8%, tablets' 3.2%, smartphones 10.6%, handhelds' 9.8%, consoles' only 36.7% and online casual games 10.2%. The fastest growing market segments being mobile games with an average annual rate of 19% for smartphones and 48% for tablets. In the past several years, many developers opened and many closed down. Each year a number of developers are acquired by larger companies or merge with existing companies. For example, in 2007 Blizzard Entertainment's parent company, Vivendi Games merged with Activision. In 2008 Electronic Arts nearly acquired Take-Two Interactive. In 2009 Midway Games was acquired by Time-Warner and Eidos Interactive merged with Square Enix.

=== Producer ===:
    Development is overseen by internal and external producers. The producer working for the developer is known as the internal producer and manages the development team, schedules, reports progress, hires and assigns staff, and so on. The producer working for the publisher is known as the external producer and oversees developer progress and budget. Producer's responsibilities include PR, contract negotiation, liaising between the staff and stakeholders, schedule and budget maintenance, quality assurance, beta test management, and localization. This role may also be referred to as project manager, project lead, or director.

=== Publisher ===:
    A video game publisher is a company that publishes video games that they have either developed internally or have had developed by an external video game developer. As with book publishers or publishers of DVD movies, video game publishers are responsible for their product's manufacturing and marketing, including market research and all aspects of advertising. They usually finance the development, sometimes by paying a video game developer (the publisher calls this external development) and sometimes by paying an internal staff of developers called a studio. Consequently, they also typically own the IP of the game. Large video game publishers also distribute the games they publish, while some smaller publishers instead hire distribution companies (or larger video game publishers) to distribute the games they publish. Other functions usually performed by the publisher include deciding on and paying for any license that the game may utilize; paying for localization; layout, printing, and possibly the writing of the user manual; and the creation of graphic design elements such as the box design. Large publishers may also attempt to boost efficiency across all internal and external development teams by providing services such as sound design and code packages for commonly needed functionality. Because the publisher usually finances development, it usually tries to manage development risk with a staff of producers or project managers to monitor the progress of the developer, critique ongoing development, and assist as necessary. Most video games created by an external video game developer are paid for with periodic advances on royalties. These advances are paid when the developer reaches certain stages of development, called milestones. Independent video game developers create games without a publisher and may choose to digitally distribute their games.

=== Development team ===:
    Developers can range in size from small groups making casual games to housing hundreds of employees and producing several large titles. Companies divide their subtasks of game development. Individual job titles may vary; however, roles are the same within the industry. The development team consists of several members. Some members of the team may handle more than one role; similarly, more than one task may be handled by the same member. Team size can vary from 3 to 100 or more members, depending on the game's scope. The most represented are artists, followed by programmers, then designers, and finally, audio specialists, with one to three producers in management. Many teams also include a dedicated writer with expertise in video game writing. These positions are employed full-time. Other positions, such as testers, may be employed only part-time. Use of contractors for art, programming, and writing is standard within the industry. Salaries for these positions vary depending on both the experience and the location of the employee.

==== Designer ====:
    A game designer is a person who designs gameplay, conceiving and designing the rules and structure of a game. Development teams usually have a lead designer who coordinates the work of other designers. They are the main visionaries of the game. One of the roles of a designer is being a writer, often employed part-time to conceive the game's narrative, dialogue, commentary, cutscene narrative, journals, video game packaging content, hint system, etc. In larger projects, there are often separate designers for various parts of the game, such as, game mechanics, user interface, characters, dialogue, graphics, etc.

==== Artist ====:
    A game artist is a visual artist who creates video game art. The art production is usually overseen by an art director or art lead, making sure their vision is followed. The art director manages the art team, scheduling and coordinating within the development team. The artist's job may be 2D oriented or 3D oriented. 2D artists may produce concept art, sprites, textures, environmental backdrops or terrain images, and user interface. 3D artists may produce models or meshes, animation, 3D environment, and cinematics. Artists sometimes occupy both roles.

==== Programmer ====:
    A game programmer is a software engineer who primarily develops video games or related software (such as game development tools). The game's codebase development is handled by programmers. There are usually one to several lead programmers, who implement the game's starting codebase and overview future development and programmer allocation on individual modules. An entry-level programmer can make, on average, around $70,000 annually and an experienced programmer can make, on average, around $125,000 annually.

Individual programming disciplines roles include::
    Physics – the programming of the game engine, including simulating physics, collision, object movement, etc.; AI – producing computer agents using game AI techniques, such as scripting, planning, rule-based decisions, etc. Graphics – the managing of graphical content utilization and memory considerations; the production of the graphics engine, integration of models, textures to work along the physics engine. Sound – integration of music, speech, and effect sounds into the proper locations and times. Gameplay – implementation of various game rules and features (sometimes called a generalist); Scripting – development and maintenance of a high-level command system for various in-game tasks, such as AI, level editor triggers, etc. UI – production of user interface elements, like option menus, HUDs, help and feedback systems, etc. Input processing – processing and compatibility correlation of various input devices, such as keyboard, mouse, gamepad, etc. Network communications – the managing of data inputs and outputs for local and internet gameplay. Game tools – the production of tools to accompany the development of the game, especially for designers and scripters.

==== Level designer ====:
    A level designer is a person who creates levels, challenges or missions for video games using a specific set of programs. These programs may be commonly available commercial 3D or 2D design programs, or specially designed and tailored level editors made for a specific game. Level designers work with both incomplete and complete versions of the game. Game programmers usually produce level editors and design tools for the designers to use. This eliminates the need for designers to access or modify game code. Level editors may involve custom high-level scripting languages for interactive environments or AIs. As opposed to the level editing tools sometimes available to the community, level designers often work with placeholders and prototypes aiming for consistency and clear layout before the required artwork is completed.

==== Sound engineer ====:
    Sound engineers are technical professionals responsible for sound effects and sound positioning. They are sometimes involved in creating haptic feedback, as was the case with the Returnal game sound team at PlayStation Studios Creative Arts in London. They sometimes oversee voice acting and other sound asset creation. Composers who create a game's musical score also comprise a game's sound team, though often this work is outsourced.

==== Tester ====:
    The quality assurance is carried out by game testers. A game tester analyzes video games to document software defects as part of a quality control. Testing is a highly technical field requiring computing expertise and analytic competence. The testers ensure that the game falls within the proposed design: it both works and is entertaining. This involves testing of all features, compatibility, localization, etc. Although necessary throughout the whole development process, testing is expensive and is often actively utilized only towards the completion of the project.

== Development process ==:
    Game development is a software development process, as a video game is software with art, audio, and gameplay. Formal software development methods are often overlooked. Games with poor development methodology are likely to run over budget and time estimates, as well as contain a large number of bugs. Planning is important for individual and group projects alike. Overall game development is not suited for typical software life cycle methods, such as the waterfall model. One method employed for game development is agile development. It is based on iterative prototyping, a subset of software prototyping. Agile development depends on feedback and refinement of the game's iterations with a gradually increasing feature set. This method is effective because most projects do not start with a clear requirement outline. A popular method of agile software development is Scrum. Another successful method is Personal Software Process (PSP) requiring additional staff training to increase awareness of project planning. This method is more expensive and requires commitment of team members. PSP can be extended to Team Software Process, where the whole team is self-directing. Game development usually involves an overlap of these methods. For example, asset creation may be done via waterfall model, because requirements and specification are clear, but gameplay design might be done using iterative prototyping. There are many types of commonly used programming languages for game development as more suitable. Java and Javascript are top choices due to animation capability. Many 3D games also use C++ or C#. Python also has many libraries that can produce suitable game development. Minecraft for example is built entirely through java. When programming the game the developers can either program the game animation using many graphical design libraries within the programming language. Or if not they can load images direct into memory using the code to be the game animation. Java has a high functionality for loading images into memory. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Programming_game>

=== Pre-production ===:
    Pre-production or design phase is a planning phase of the project focused on idea and concept development and production of initial design documents. The goal of concept development is to produce clear and easy to understand documentation, which describes all the tasks, schedules and estimates for the development team. The suite of documents produced in this phase is called production plan. This phase is usually not funded by a publisher, however good publishers may require developers to produce plans during pre-production. The concept documentation can be separated into three stages or documents—high concept, pitch and concept; however, there is no industry standard naming convention, for example, both Bethke (2003) and Bates (2004) refer to pitch document as "game proposal", yet Moore, Novak (2010) refers to concept document as "game proposal". The late stage of pre-production may also be referred to as proof of concept, or technical review when more detailed game documents are produced. Publishers have started to expect broader game proposals even featuring playable prototypes.

==== High concept ====:
    High concept is a brief description of a game. The high concept is the one-or two-sentence response to the question, "What is your game about?".

==== Pitch ====:
    A pitch, concept document, proposal document, or game proposal is a short summary document intended to present the game's selling points and detail why the game would be profitable to develop. Verbal pitches may be made to management within the developer company, and then presented to publishers. A written document may need to be shown to publishers before funding is approved. A game proposal may undergo one to several green-light meetings with publisher executives who determine if the game is to be developed. The presentation of the project is often given by the game designers. Demos may be created for the pitch; however may be unnecessary for established developers with good track records. If the developer acts as its own publisher, or both companies are subsidiaries of a single company, then only the upper management needs to give approval.

==== Concept ====:
    Concept document, game proposal, or game plan is a more detailed document than the pitch document. This includes all the information produced about the game. This includes the high concept, game's genre, gameplay description, features, setting, story, target audience, hardware platforms, estimated schedule, marketing analysis, team requirements, and risk analysis. Before an approved design is completed, a skeleton crew of programmers and artists usually begins work.  Programmers may develop quick-and-dirty prototypes showcasing one or more features that stakeholders would like to see incorporated in the final product.  Artists may develop concept art and asset sketches as a springboard for developing real game assets.  Producers may work part-time on the game at this point, scaling up for full-time commitment as development progresses. Game producer's work during pre-production is related to planning the schedule, budget and estimating tasks with the team. The producer aims to create a solid production plan so that no delays are experienced at the start of the production.

==== Game design document ====:
    Before a full-scale production can begin, the development team produces the first version of a game design document incorporating all or most of the material from the initial pitch. The design document describes the game's concept and major gameplay elements in detail. It may also include preliminary sketches of various aspects of the game. The design document is sometimes accompanied by functional prototypes of some sections of the game. The design document remains a living document throughout the development—often changed weekly or even daily. Compiling a list of game's needs is called "requirement capture".

==== Prototype ====:
    Writing prototypes of gameplay ideas and features is an important activity that allows programmers and game designers to experiment with different algorithms and usability scenarios for a game. A great deal of prototyping may take place during pre-production before the design document is complete and may, in fact, help determine what features the design specifies. Prototyping at this stage is often done manually, (paper prototyping), not digitally, as this is often easier and faster to test and make changes before wasting time and resources on what could be a canceled idea or project. Prototyping may also take place during active development to test new ideas as the game emerges. Prototypes are often meant only to act as a proof of concept or to test ideas, by adding, modifying or removing some of the features. Most algorithms and features debuted in a prototype may be ported to the game once they have been completed. Often prototypes need to be developed quickly with very little time for up-front design (around 20 to 25§ minutes of testing). Therefore, usually very prolific programmers are called upon to quickly code these testbed tools. RAD tools may be used to aid in the quick development of these programs. In case the prototype is in a physical form, programmers and designers alike will make the game with paper, dice, and other easy-to-access tools in order to make the prototype faster. A successful development model is iterative prototyping, where design is refined based on current progress. There are various technology available for video game development

=== Production ===:
    Production is the main stage of development when assets and source code for the game are produced. Mainstream production is usually defined as the period of time when the project is fully staffed. Programmers write new source code, artists develop game assets, such as, sprites or 3D models. Sound engineers develop sound effects and composers develop music for the game. Level designers create levels, and writers write dialogue for cutscenes and NPCs.  Game designers continue to develop the game's design throughout production.

==== Design ====:
    Game design is an essential and collaborative process of designing the content and rules of a game, requiring artistic and technical competence as well as writing skills. Creativity and an open mind are vital for the completion of a successful video game. During development, the game designer implements and modifies the game design to reflect the current vision of the game. Features and levels are often removed or added. The art treatment may evolve and the backstory may change. A new platform may be targeted as well as a new demographic. All these changes need to be documented and disseminated to the rest of the team. Most changes occur as updates to the design document.

==== Programming ====:
    The programming of the game is handled by one or more game programmers. They develop prototypes to test ideas, many of which may never make it into the final game.  The programmers incorporate new features demanded by the game design and fix any bugs introduced during the development process. Even if an off-the-shelf game engine is used, a great deal of programming is required to customize almost every game.

==== Level creation ====:
    From a time standpoint, the game's first level takes the longest to develop. As level designers and artists use the tools for level building, they request features and changes to the in-house tools that allow for quicker and higher-quality development. Newly introduced features may cause old levels to become obsolete, so the levels developed early on may be repeatedly developed and discarded. Because of the dynamic environment of game development, the design of early levels may also change over time. It is not uncommon to spend upwards of twelve months on one level of a game developed over the course of three years. Later levels can be developed much more quickly as the feature set is more complete and the game vision is clearer and more stable.

==== Art production ====:
    During development, artists make art assets according to specifications given by the designers. Early in production, concept artists make concept art to guide the artistic direction of the game, rough art is made for prototypes, and the designers work with artists to design the visual style and visual language of the game. As production goes on, more final art is made, and existing art is edited based on player feedback.

==== Audio production ====:
    Game audio may be separated into three categories—sound effects, music, and voice-over. Sound effect production is the production of sounds by either tweaking a sample to a desired effect or replicating it with real objects. Sound effects include UI sound design, which effectively conveys information both for visible UI elements and as an auditory display. It provides sonic feedback for in-game interfaces, as well as contributing to the overall game aesthetic. Sound effects are important and impact the game's delivery. Music may be synthesized or performed live. There are four main ways in which music is presented in a game. Music may be ambient, especially for slow periods of game, where the music aims to reinforce the aesthetic mood and game setting. Music may be triggered by in-game events. For example, in such games as Pac-Man or Mario, player picking up power-ups triggered respective musical scores. Action music, such as chase, battle or hunting sequences is fast-paced, hard-changing score. Menu music, similar to credits music, creates aural impact while relatively little action is taking place. A game title with 20 hours of single-player gameplay may feature around 1 hour.

==== Testing ====:
    Quality assurance of a video game product plays a significant role throughout the development cycle of a game, though comes more significantly into play as the game nears completion. Unlike other software products or productivity applications, video games are fundamentally meant to entertain, and thus the testing of video games is more focused on the end-user experience rather than the accuracy of the software code's performance, which leads to differences in how the game software is developed. Because game development is focused on the presentation and gameplay as seen by the player, there often is little rigor in maintaining and testing backend code in the early stages of development since such code may be readily disregarded if there are changes found in gameplay. Some automated testing may be used to ensure the core game engine operates as expected, but most game testing comes via game tester, who enter the testing process once a playable prototype is available. This may be one level or subset of the game software that can be used to any reasonable extent. The use of testers may be lightweight at the early stages of development, but the testers' role becomes more predominant as the game nears completion, becoming a full-time role alongside development. Early testing is considered a key part of game design; the most common issue raised in several published post-mortems on game development was the failure to start the testing process early. As code matures and the gameplay features solidify, then development typically includes more rigorous test controls such as regression testing to make sure new updates to the code base do not change working parts of the game. Games are complex software systems, and changes in one code area may unexpected cause a seemingly unrelated part of the game to fail. Testers are tasked to repeatedly play through updated versions of games in these later stages to look for any issues or bugs not otherwise found from automated testing. Because this can be a monotonous task of playing the same game over and over, this process can lead to games frequently being released with uncaught bugs or glitches. There are other factors simply inherent to video games that can make testing difficult. This includes the use of randomized gameplay systems, which require more testing for both game balance and bug tracking than more linearized games, the balance of cost and time to devote to testing as part of the development budget, and assuring that the game still remains fun and entertaining to play as changes are made to it. Despite the dangers of overlooking regression testing, some game developers and publishers fail to test the full feature suite of the game and ship a game with bugs. This can result in customer dissatisfaction and failure to meet sales goals. When this does happen, most developers and publishers quickly release patches that fix the bugs and make the game fully playable again. Certain publishing models are designed specifically to accommodate the fact that first releases of games may be bug-ridden but will be fixed post-release. The early access model invites players to pay into a game before its planned release and helps to provide feedback and bug reports. Mobile games and games with live services are also anticipated to be updated on a frequent basis, offset by pre-release testing with live feedback and bug reports.

=== Milestones ===:
    Commercial game development projects may be required to meet milestones set by the publisher. Milestones mark major events during game development and are used to track game's progress. Such milestones may be, for example, first playable, alpha, or beta  game versions. Project milestones depend on the developer schedules. Milestones are usually based on multiple short descriptions for functionality; examples may be "Player roaming around in-game environment" or "Physics working, collisions, vehicle" etc. (numerous descriptions are possible).  These milestones are usually how the developer gets paid; sometimes as "an advance against royalty". These milestones are listed, anywhere from three to twenty depending on the developer and publisher.  The milestone list is usually a collaborative agreement between the publisher and developer.  The developer usually advocates for making the milestone descriptions as simple as possible; depending on the specific publisher - the milestone agreements may get very detailed for a specific game.  When working with a good publisher, the "spirit of the law" is usually adhered to regarding milestone completion... in other words, if the milestone is 90% complete the milestone is usually paid with the understanding that it will be 100% complete by the next due milestone.  It is a collaborative agreement between publisher and developer, and usually (but not always) the developer is constrained by heavy monthly development expenses that need to be met.  Also, sometimes milestones are "swapped", the developer or publisher may mutually agree to amend the agreement and rearrange milestone goals depending on changing requirements and development resources available.  Milestone agreements are usually included as part of the legal development contracts.  After each "milestone" there is usually a payment arrangement.  Some very established developers may simply have a milestone agreement based on the amount of time the game is in development (monthly/quarterly) and not specific game functionality - this is not as common as detailed functionality "milestone lists". There is no industry standard for defining milestones, and such varies depending on publisher, year, or project. Some common milestones for a two-year development cycle are as follows:

==== First playable ====:
    The first playable is the game version containing representative gameplay and assets, this is the first version with functional major gameplay elements. It is often based on the prototype created in pre-production. Alpha and first playable are sometimes used to refer to a single milestone, however, large projects require first playable before feature complete alpha. First playable occurs 12 to 18 months before code release.  It is sometimes referred to as the "Pre-Alpha" stage.

==== Alpha ====:
    Alpha is the stage when key gameplay functionality is implemented, and assets are partially finished. A game in alpha is feature complete, that is, the game is playable and contains all the major features. These features may be further revised based on testing and feedback. Additional small, new features may be added, and similarly planned, but unimplemented features may be dropped. Programmers focus mainly on finishing the codebase, rather than implementing additions.

==== Code freeze ====:
    Code freeze is the stage when new code is no longer added to the game and only bugs are being corrected. Code freeze occurs three to four months before code release.

==== Beta ====:
    Beta is a feature and asset complete version of the game, when only bugs are being fixed. This version contains no bugs that prevent the game from being shippable. No changes are made to the game features, assets, or code. Beta occurs two to three months before code release.

==== Code release ====:
    Code release is the stage when many bugs are fixed and game is ready to be shipped or submitted for console manufacturer review. This version is tested against the QA test plan. First code release candidate is usually ready three to four weeks before code release.

==== Gold master ====:
    Gold master is the final game's build that is used as a master for the production of the game.

==== Release schedules and "crunch time" ====:
    In most AAA game development, games are announced a year or more in advance and given a planned release date or approximate window so that they can promote and market the game, establish orders with retailers, and entice consumers to pre-order the game. Delaying the release of a video game can have a negative financial impact on publishers and developers, and extensive delays may lead to project cancellation and employee layoffs. To ensure a game makes a set release date, publishers and developers may require their employees to work overtime to complete the game, which is considered common in the industry. This overtime is often referred to as "crunch time" or "crunch mode". In 2004 and afterwards, the culture of crunch time in the industry came under scrutiny, leading many publishers and developers to reduce the expectation on developers for overtime work and better schedule management, though crunch time still can occur.

=== Post-production ===:
    After the game goes gold and ships, some developers will give team members comp time (perhaps up to a week or two) to compensate for the overtime put in to complete the game, though this compensation is not standard.

==== Maintenance ====:
    Once a game ships, the maintenance phase for the video game begins. Games developed for video game consoles have had almost no maintenance period in the past. The shipped game would forever house as many bugs and features as when released. This was common for consoles since all consoles had identical or nearly identical hardware; making incompatibility, the cause of many bugs, a non-issue. In this case, maintenance would only occur in the case of a port, sequel, or enhanced remake that reuses a large portion of the engine and assets. In recent times popularity of online console games has grown, and online capable video game consoles and online services such as Xbox Live for the Xbox have developed. Developers can maintain their software through downloadable patches. These changes would not have been possible in the past without the widespread availability of the Internet. PC development is different. Game developers try to account for the majority of configurations and hardware. However, the number of possible configurations of hardware and software inevitably leads to the discovery of game-breaking circumstances that the programmers and testers did not account for. Programmers wait for a period to get as many bug reports as possible. Once the developer thinks they've obtained enough feedback, the programmers start working on a patch. The patch may take weeks or months to develop, but it is intended to fix most accounted bugs and problems with the game that were overlooked in past code releases, or in rare cases, fix unintended problems caused by previous patches. Occasionally a patch may include extra features or content or may even alter gameplay. In the case of a massively multiplayer online game (MMOG), such as a MMORPG or MMORTS, the shipment of the game is the starting phase of maintenance.  The maintenance staff for such an online game can number in the dozens, sometimes including members of the original programming team, as the game world is continuously changed and iterated and new features are added. Some developers implement a public test realm or player test realm (PTR) in order to test out significant upcoming changes prior to release. These specialized servers offer similar benefits as beta testing, where players get to preview new features while the developer gathers data about bugs and game balance.

== Outsourcing ==:
    Several development disciplines, such as audio, dialogue, or motion capture, occur for relatively short periods of time. Efficient employment of these roles requires either a large development house with multiple simultaneous title productions or outsourcing from third-party vendors. Employing personnel for these tasks full-time is expensive, so a majority of developers outsource a portion of the work. Outsourcing plans are conceived during the pre-production stage; where the time and finances required for outsourced work are estimated. The music cost ranges based on the length of composition, method of performance (live or synthesized), and composer experience. In 2003 a minute of high-quality synthesized music cost between US$600-1.5k. A title with 20 hours of gameplay and 60 minutes of music may have cost $50k-60k for its musical score. Voice acting is well-suited for outsourcing as it requires a set of specialized skills. Only large publishers employ in-house voice actors. Sound effects can also be outsourced. Programming is generally outsourced less than other disciplines, such as art or music. However, outsourcing for extra programming work or savings in salaries has become more common in recent years.

=== Ghost development ===:
    Outsourced work is sometimes anonymous, i.e. not credited on the final product. This might go against the wishes of the developer, or it is something they reluctantly consent to because it is the only work they can get. See Video game controversies § Lack of crediting for more information on this. However, anonymity can also be agreed upon, or even desired by the outsourced party. A 2015 Polygon article stated that this practice is known as ghost development. Ghost developers are hired by other developers to provide assistance, by publishers to develop a title they designed, or by companies outside the gaming industry. These businesses prefer to keep this hidden from the public to protect their brand equity, not wanting consumers or investors to know that they rely on external help. Ghost development can involve (small) portions of a project, but there have been instances of entire games being outsourced without the studio being credited. Ghost development has a particularly long history in the Japanese video game industry. Probably the best-known example is Tose. Founded in 1979, this 'behind-the-scenes' agent has either developed or helped develop over 2,000 games as of 2017, most of them anonymously. This includes uncredited contributions to multiple Resident Evil, Metal Gear, and Dragon Quest titles. Another example is Tokyo-based Hyde, which worked on Final Fantasy, Persona, and Yakuza games. Its president, Kenichi Yanagihara, stated that the approach stems from Japanese culture, in which many people prefer not to seek the limelight.

== Marketing ==:
    The game production has similar distribution methods to those of music and film industries. The publisher's marketing team targets the game for a specific market and then advertises it. The team advises the developer on target demographics and market trends, as well as suggests specific features. The game is then advertised and the game's high concept is incorporated into the promotional material, ranging from magazine ads to TV spots. Communication between developer and marketing is important. The length and purpose of a game demo depends on the purpose of the demo and target audience. A game's demo may range between a few seconds (such as clips or screenshots) to hours of gameplay. The demo is usually intended for journalists, buyers, trade shows, general public, or internal employees (who, for example, may need to familiarize with the game to promote it). Demos are produced with public relations, marketing and sales in mind, maximizing the presentation effectiveness.

=== Trade show demo ===:
    As a game nears completion, the publisher will want to showcase a demo of the title at trade shows. Many games have a "Trade Show demo" scheduled. The major annual trade shows are, for example, Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) or Penny Arcade Expo (PAX). E3 is the largest show in North America. E3 is hosted primarily for marketing and business deals. New games and platforms are announced at E3 and it received broad press coverage. Thousands of products are on display and press demonstration schedules are kept. In the 2000s E3 became a more closed-door event and many advertisers have withdrawn, reducing E3's budget. PAX, created by authors of Penny Arcade blog and web-comic, is a mature and playful event with a player-centred philosophy.

=== Localization ===:
    A game created in one language may also be published in other countries which speak a different language. For that region, the developers may want to translate the game to make it more accessible. For example, some games created for PlayStation Vita were initially published in Japanese language, like Soul Sacrifice. Non-native speakers of the game's original language may have to wait for the translation of the game to their language. But most modern big-budget games take localization into account during the development process and the games are released in several different languages simultaneously. Localization is the process of translating the language assets in a game into other languages. By localizing games, they increase their level of accessibility where games could help to expend the international markets effectively. Game localization is generally known as language translations yet a "full localization" of a game is a complex project. Different levels of translation range from: zero translation being that there is no translation to the product and all things are sent raw, to basic translation where only a few text and subtitles are translated or even added, and full translation where new voiceovers and game material changes are added. There are various essential elements in localizing a game including translating the language of the game to adjusting in-game assets for different cultures to reach more potential consumers in other geographies (or globalization for short). The translation seems to fall into the scope of localization, which itself constitutes a substantially broader endeavour. These include the different levels of translation to the globalization of the game itself. However, certain developers seem to be divided on whether globalization falls under localization or not. Moreover, to fit into the local markets, game production companies often change or redesign the graphic designs or the packaging of the game for marketing purposes. For example, the popular game Assassin's Creed has two different packaging designs for the European and US markets. By localizing the graphics and packaging designs, companies might arouse better connections and attention from the consumers from various regions.

== Development costs ==:
    The costs of developing a video game varies widely depending on several factors including team size, game genre and scope, and other factors such as intellectual property licensing costs. Most video game consoles also require development licensing costs which include game development kits for building and testing software. Game budgets also typically include costs for marketing and promotion, which can be on the same order in cost as the development budget. Prior to the 1990s, game development budgets, when reported, typically were on the average of US$1–5 million, with known outliers, such as the $20–25 million that Atari had paid to license the rights for E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial in addition to development costs. The adoption of technologies such as 3D hardware rendering and CD-ROM integration by the mid-1990s, enabling games with more visual fidelity compared to prior titles, caused developers and publishers to put more money into game budgets as to flesh out narratives through cutscenes and full-motion video, and creating the start of the AAA video game industry. Some of the most expensive titles to develop around this time, approaching costs typical of major motion picture production budgets, included Final Fantasy VII in 1997 with an estimated budget of $40–45 million, and Shenmue in 1999 with an estimated budget of $47–70 million.Final Fantasy VII, with its marketing budget, had a total estimated cost of $80–145 million. Raph Koster, a video game designer and economist, evaluated published development budgets (less any marketing) for over 250 games in 2017 and reported that since the mid-1990s, there has been a type of Moore's Law in game budgets, with the average budget doubling about every five years after accounting for inflation. Koster reported average budgets were around $100 million by 2017, and could reach over $200 million by the early 2020s. Koster asserts these trends are partially tied to the technological Moore's law that gave more computational power for developers to work into their games, but also related to expectations for content from players in newer games and the number of players games are expected to draw. Shawn Layden, former CEO of Sony Interactive Entertainment, affirmed that the costs for each generation of PlayStation consoles nearly doubled, with PlayStation 4 games have average budgets of $100 million and anticipating that PlayStation 5 games could reach $200 million. The rising costs of budgets of AAA games in the early 2000s led publishers to become risk-averse, staying to titles that were most likely to be high-selling games to recoup their costs. As a result of this risk aversion, the selection of AAA games in the mid-2000s became rather similar, and gave the opportunity for indie games that provided more experimental and unique gameplay concepts to expand around that time. Costs of development for AAA games continued to rise over the next two decades; a report by the United Kingdom's Competition and Markets Authority regarding the proposed acquisition of Activision Blizzard by Microsoft in 2023. Costs slowing increased from 1–4 million in 2000, to over $5 million in 2006, then to over $20 million by 2010, followed by $50 million to $150 million by 2018, and $200 million and up by 2023. In some cases, several AAA games exceeded $1 billion to make, split between $500-$600M to develop and a similar amount for marketing. In court documents from regulatory review of the Activision Blizzard merger, reviewed by The Verge, the costs of Sony's first party games like Horizon Forbidden West and The Last of Us Part II had exceeded $200 million.

== Indie development ==:
    Independent games or indie games are produced by individuals and small teams with no large-scale developer or publisher affiliations. Indie developers generally rely on Internet distribution schemes. Many hobbyist indie developers create mods of existing games. Indie developers are credited for creative game ideas (for example, Darwinia, Weird Worlds, World of Goo). Current economic viability of indie development is questionable, however in recent years internet delivery platforms, such as, Xbox Live Arcade and Steam have improved indie game success. In fact, some indie games have become very successful, such as Braid, World of Goo, and Minecraft. In recent years many communities have emerged in support of indie games such as the popular indie game marketplace Itch.io, indie game YouTube channels and a large indie community on Steam. It is common for indie game developers to release games for free and generate revenue through other means such as microtransactions (in-game transactions), in-game advertisements and crowd-funding services like Patreon and Kickstarter.

== Game industry ==:
    The video game industry (formally referred to as interactive entertainment) is the economic sector involved with the development, marketing and sale of video games. The industry sports several unique approaches.

==== United States ====:
    In the United States, in the early history of video game development, the prominent locale for game development was the corridor from San Francisco to Silicon Valley in California. Most new developers in the US open near such "hot beds". At present, many large publishers still operate there, such as: Activision Blizzard, Capcom Entertainment, Crystal Dynamics, Electronic Arts, Namco Bandai Games, Sega of America, and Sony Computer Entertainment America. However, due to the nature of game development, many publishers are present in other regions, such as Big Fish Games (Washington), Majesco Entertainment (New Jersey), Microsoft Corporation (Washington), Nintendo of America (Washington), and Take-Two Interactive (New York),

=== Education ===:
    Many universities and design schools are offering classes specifically focused on game development. Some have built strategic alliances with major game development companies. These alliances ensure that students have access to the latest technologies and are provided the opportunity to find jobs within the gaming industry once qualified. Many innovative ideas are presented at conferences, such as Independent Games Festival (IGF) or Game Developers Conference (GDC). Indie game development may motivate students who produce a game for their final projects or thesis and may open their own game company.

=== Stability ===:
    Video game industry employment is fairly volatile, similar to other artistic industries including television, music, etc. Scores of game development studios crop up, work on one game, and then quickly go under. This may be one reason why game developers tend to congregate geographically; if their current studio goes under, developers can flock to an adjacent one or start another from the ground up. In an industry where only the top 20% of products make a profit, it is easy to understand this fluctuation. Numerous games may start development and are cancelled, or perhaps even completed but never published. Experienced game developers may work for years and yet never ship a title: such is the nature of the business.

=== Sources ===:
    https://www.academia.edu/6639017/Challenges_in_video_game_localization_An_integrated_perspective

http://www.erudit.org/revue/meta/2012/v57/n2/1013949ar.html:
    The Game Localization Handbook (Charles River Media Game Development) Paperback – October, 2004, by Heather M(Heather Chandler) Chandler (Author)

http://bytelevel.com/global/game_globalization.html (Q&A with the author):
    http://www.jostrans.org/issue06/art_ohagan.php Archived 2023-03-11 at the Wayback Machine

== Life cycle ==:
    Game developers may produce the game design document in the pre-production stage of game development—prior to or after a pitch. Before a pitch, the document may be conceptual and incomplete. Once the project has been approved, the document is expanded by the developer to a level where it can successfully guide the development team. Because of the dynamic environment of game development, the document is often changed, revised and expanded as development progresses and changes in scope and direction are explored.  As such, a game design document is often referred to as a living document, that is, a piece of work which is continuously improved upon throughout the implementation of the project, sometimes as often as daily.  A document may start off with only the basic concept outlines and become a complete, detailed list of every game aspect by the end of the project.

== Content ==:
    A game design document may be made of text, images, diagrams, concept art, or any applicable media to better illustrate design decisions. Some design documents may include functional prototypes or a chosen game engine for some sections of the game. Although considered a requirement by many companies, a GDD has no set industry standard form. For example, developers may choose to keep the document as a word processor document, or as an online collaboration tool.

== Structure ==:
    The purpose of a game design document is to unambiguously describe the game's selling points, target audience, gameplay, art, level design, story, characters, UI, assets, etc. In short, every game part requiring development should be included by the developer in enough detail for the respective developers to implement the said part. The document is purposely sectioned and divided in a way that game developers can refer to and maintain the relevant parts. The majority of video games should require an inclusion or variation of the following sections:

Monetization:
    This list is by no means exhaustive or applicable to every game. Some of these sections might not appear in the GDD itself but may instead appear in supplemental documents.

== Game concept ==:
    The game concept describes the main idea of the game. This section of the document is a simple explanation of the ideas for the game. The concept includes what the game exactly is, and what is being made of it. This portion of the document will also inform such people like the art team, publishers, developers, etc., on the expectations of the game when it is being developed. So while in the production phase of the game, the document is being used as a guide to create the game. The concepts are introduced to a product development director, or even an executive producer, before it is allowed outside of the product development department. It will then be the director's decision to whether the idea has merit or not, leading to the idea being disregarded or supported to develop the game proposal. Even with the concept being in favor of the director, there is still the possibility of changes being requested. The director might pass the concept to others as part of the design staff, producers, or shown to the entire department or company, giving the concept a higher chance at being more captivating with the addition of a buoyant and imaginative group of people.

In Rules of Play (2004), Katie Salen and Eric Zimmermann write::
    A game designer is a particular kind of designer, much like a graphic designer, industrial designer or architect. A game designer is not necessarily a programmer, visual designer or project manager, although sometimes he or she can also play these roles in the creation of a game. A game designer might work alone or as part of a larger team. A game designer might create card games, social games, video games or any other kind of game. The focus of a game designer is designing game play, conceiving and designing rules and structures that result in an experience for players. Thus game design, as a discipline, requires a focus on games in and of themselves. Rather than placing games in the service of another field such as sociology, literary criticism, or computer science, our aim is to study games within their own disciplinary space. Because game design is an emerging discipline, we often borrow from other areas of knowledge — from mathematics and cognitive science; from semiotics and cultural studies. We may not borrow in the most orthodox manner, but we do so in the service of helping to establish a field of game design proper.

== Game designer ==:
    A game designer is a person who designs gameplay, conceiving and designing the rules and structure of a game. Multiple designers start their career in testing departments, other roles in game development or in classroom conditions, where mistakes by others can be seen first-hand. A lead designer coordinates the work of other designers and is the main visionary of the game. The lead designer ensures team communication, makes large design decisions and presents design outside of the team. Often the lead designer is technically and artistically astute. Keeping well-presented documentation also falls within lead designer responsibilities. A lead designer may be the founder of a game development company or a promoted employee. A game mechanics designer or systems designer designs and balances the game's rules. A level designer or environment designer is a position becoming prominent in recent years. A level designer is a person responsible for creating the game environment, levels and missions. Planner is a term used in the Japanese video game industry where game designers are typically credited as planners.

=== Compensation ===:
    In 2010, a game designer with more than six years of experience earned an average of US$65,000 (£44,761.22 sterling), US$54,000 (£37,186.24) with three to six years of experience and $44,000 (£30,299.90) with less than 3 years of experience. Lead designers earned $75,000 (£51,647.56)  with three to six years of experience and $95,000 (£65,420.24) with more than six years of experience. In 2013, a game designer with less than 3 years of experience earned, on average, $55,000 (£37,874.88). A game designer with more than 6 years of experience made, on average, $105,000 (£72,306.58). The average salary of these designers varies depending on their region. As of 2015 the salary of experienced workers has shifted to approximately US$87,000 (£59,911.17) As of January 17, 2020, the average annual pay for a game designer in the United States is $130,000 a year.

=== World design ===:
    World design is the creation of a backstory, setting and theme for the game; often done by a lead designer. World design can also be the creation of a universe or a map, as well as topics or areas that are likely to be pursued by the player. It is a map referenced for creation of everything as it shows where it is and allows for the most logistical design in any given game. World design shapes the direction the game goes towards.

=== System design ===:
    System design is the creation of game rules and underlying mathematical patterns. System design is the enacted simulation of a game designed to interact or react with the player. The "experience" a player has with a game is attributed to how the game's system is designed. A complex system with depth leads to a more unpredictable strand of events to immerse the player into the video game.

=== Content design ===:
    Content design is the creation of characters, items, puzzles, missions, or any aspect of the game that is not required for it to function properly and meet the minimum viable product standard. In essence, content is the complexity added to a minimum viable product to increase its value.

=== Game writing ===:
    Game writing involves writing dialogue, text and story. This is one of the first steps that go into making a video game. This encompasses a number of different elements of the process. Writing in video games also includes the elements in which the literature is presented. Voice acting, text, picture editing and music are all elements of game writing.

=== Level design ===:
    Level design is the construction of world levels and its features. Level design makes use of a range of different fields to create a game world. Lighting, space, framing, color and contrast are used to draw a player's attention. A designer can then use these elements to guide or direct the player in a specific direction through the game world or mislead them.

=== User interface design ===:
    User interface (UI) design deals with the construction the user interactions and feedback interface, like menus or heads-up displays. The user interface also incorporates game mechanics design. Deciding how much information to give the player and in what way allows the designer to inform the player about the world, or perhaps leave them uninformed. Another aspect to consider is the method of input a game will use and deciding to what degree a player can interact with a game with these inputs. These choices have a profound effect on the mood of the game, as it directly affects the player in both noticeable and subtle ways. User interface design in video games has unique goals. A conscious decision has to be made regarding the amount of information to relay to the player. However, the UI in games do not have to be absolutely streamlined. Players expect challenges and are willing to accept them as long as the experience is sufficiently rewarding. By the same token, navigating or interaction with a game's UI can be satisfying without the need to be effortless.

=== Audio design ===:
    Audio design involves the process of creating or incorporating all of the sounds that are in the game, like music, sound effects or voice acting. This includes the theme song and jingles used in title screens and menus.

=== User experience design ===:
    The disciplines listed above all combine to form the discipline of game feel. It ensures that the flow of the game and the user interaction with the game elements are functioning smoothly.

=== Narrative ===:
    Numerous games have narrative elements which give a context to an event in a game, making the activity of playing it less abstract and enhance its entertainment value, although narrative elements are not always clearly present or present at all. The original version of Tetris is an example of a game apparently without narrative. Some narratologists claim that all games have a narrative element. Some go further and claim that games are essentially a form of narrative. Narrative in practice can be the starting point for the development of a game or can be added to a design that started as a set of game mechanics.

=== Gameplay ===:
    Gameplay is the interactive aspects of video game design. Gameplay involves player interaction with the game, usually for the purpose of gameplay is entertainment, education or training.

=== Conceptualization ===:
    The design process varies from designer to designer and companies have different formal procedures and philosophies. The typical "textbook" approach is to start with a concept or a previously completed game and from there create a game design document. This document is intended to map out the complete game design and acts as a central resource for the development team. This document should ideally be updated as the game evolves throughout the production process.

=== Role Adaptation ===:
    Designers are frequently expected to adapt to multiple roles of widely varying nature; for example, concept prototyping can be assisted with the use of pre-existing engines and tools like GameMaker Studio, Unity, Godot or Construct. Level designs might be done first on paper and again for the game engine using a 3D modeling tool. Scripting languages are used for multiple elements—AI, cutscenes, GUI, environmental processes, and a number of other behaviors and effects—that designers would want to tune without a programmer's assistance. Setting, story and character concepts require a research and writing process. Designers may oversee focus testing, write up art and audio asset lists and write game documentation. In addition to the skillset, designers are ideally clear communicators with attention to detail and ability to delegate responsibilities appropriately.

=== Design Approval ===:
    Design approval in the commercial setting is a continuous process from the earliest stages until the game ships. When a new project is being discussed (either internally or as a result of dialogue with potential publishers), the designer may be asked to write a sell-sheet of short concepts, followed by a one or two-page pitch of specific features, audience, platform and other details. Designers will first meet with leads in other departments to establish agreement on the feasibility of the game given the available time, scope and budget. If the pitch is approved, early milestones focus on the creation of a fleshed-out design document. Some developers advocate a prototyping phase before the design document is written to experiment with new ideas before they become part of the design.

=== Production and Decision-Making ===:
    As production progresses, designers are asked to make frequent decisions about elements missing from the design. The consequences of these decisions are hard to predict and often can only be determined after creating the full implementation. These are referred to as the unknowns of the design and the faster they are uncovered, the less risk the team faces later in the production process. Outside factors such as budget cuts or changes in milestone expectations also result in cuts to the design and while overly large cuts can take the heart out of a project, cuts can also result in a streamlined design with only the essential features, polished well.

=== Finalization and Quality Assurance ===:
    Towards the end of production, designers take the brunt of responsibility for ensuring that the gameplay remains at a uniform standard throughout the game, even in very long games. This task is made more difficult under "crunch" conditions, as the entire team may begin to lose sight of the core gameplay once pressured to hit a date for a finished and bug-free game.

== Game design tools ==:
    Traditionally, game designers used simple tools like Word, Excel or just plain pen and paper. As the field has evolved and player agency and localization started to play a bigger role in game development, the need for professional tools has emerged for this particular field. Examples of software for narrative design and storytelling include articy:draft 3 and Twine. Tools like these often help to inform the earliest stages of the design and development process, before visual content and software development is started in earnest. There are various kinds of free 3D design software available to the public, from the mainly graphically focussed, such as Blender, to game engines and software development toolkits, such as Unreal Engine and Unity, that promote communities that self-educate as well as market 3D models and tutorials for beginners.

== External links ==:
    Game design veteran Tom Sloper's game biz advice, including lessons on game design

The Designer at the Wayback Machine (archived January 7, 2008) at Eurocom:
    The Philosophy of Game Design (part 1) Archived 2013-11-05 at the Wayback Machine at The Escapist GDP2: Game Designs and Game Design Patterns collection Archived 2016-10-21 at the Wayback Machine hosted by Interactive Institute

The Chemistry Of Game Design at Gamasutra - by Daniel Cook:
    Daniel Cook: Game Design Theory I Wish I had Known When I Started video from YouTube Hunger games Archived 2015-05-11 at the Wayback Machine (January 2015). "A new wave of videogames offers lessons in powerlessness, scarcity and inevitable failure. What makes them so compelling?" Will Wiles, Aeon

List of genres:
    Video game genres (list) – categories of video games based on their gameplay interaction and set of gameplay challenges, rather than visual or narrative differences.

=== Action game ===:
    Action game –  a video game genre that emphasizes physical challenges, including hand–eye coordination and reaction-time. Beat 'em up –  a video game genre featuring melee combat between the protagonist and a large number of underpowered antagonists. Fighting game –  a genre where the player controls an on-screen character and engages in close combat with an opponent. Platformer –  requires the player to control a character to jump to and from suspended platforms or over obstacles (jumping puzzles). Shooter game –  wide subgenre that focuses on using some sort of weapon often testing the player's speed and reaction time. First-person shooter –  a video game genre that centers the gameplay on gun and projectile weapon-based combat through first-person perspective; i.e., the player experiences the action through the eyes of a protagonist. Light-gun shooter –  a genre in which the primary design element is aiming and shooting with a gun-shaped controller. Shoot 'em up –  a genre where the player controls a lone character, often in a spacecraft or aircraft, shooting large numbers of enemies while dodging their attacks. Third-person shooter –  a genre of 3D action games in which the player character is visible on-screen, and the gameplay consists primarily of shooting. Hero shooter –  multiplayer first- or third-person shooters that strongly encourage cooperative play between players on a single team through the use of pre-designed "hero" characters that each possess unique attributes, skills, weapons, and other activated abilities. Tactical shooter –  includes both first-person shooters and third-person shooters and simulates realistic combat, thus making tactics and caution more important than quick reflexes in other action games. Survival game – a genre that is set in a hostile, intense, open-world environment, where players generally begin with minimal equipment and are required to collect resources, craft tools, weapons, and shelter, and survive as long as possible. Battle royale game –  a subgenre that blends the survival, exploration, and scavenging elements of a survival game with last-man-standing gameplay.

=== Action-adventure game ===:
    Action-adventure game –  a video game genre that combines elements of both the adventure game and the action game genres. Open world –  a type of video game level design where a player can roam freely through a virtual world and is given considerable freedom in choosing how to approach objectives. Grand Theft Auto clone –  a type of open world design where the player is given a simulated environment and, optionally, exterminate the local inhabitants.  See also Grand Theft Auto. Metroidvania –  a type of level design where a player is in a more restrictive environment and tasked with an end goal objective, usually with an emphasis on gathering powering ups from exploring the environment. Stealth game –  a type of game where the objective is to remain undetected from hostile opponents. Survival horror –  a type of game where fear is a primary factor in play, usually by restricting useful or power-up items in a dark, claustrophobic environment.

=== Adventure game ===:
    Adventure game –  a video game in which the player assumes the role of protagonist in an interactive story driven by exploration and puzzle-solving instead of physical challenge. Graphic adventure game –  any adventure game that relies on graphical imagery, rather than being primarily text-based. Escape the room –  a subgenre of adventure game which requires a player to escape from imprisonment by exploiting their surroundings. Interactive fiction –  games in which players input text commands to control characters and influence the environment. In some interactive fiction, text descriptions are the primary or only way the simulated environment is communicated to the player. Interactive film –  a type of video game that features highly cinematic presentation and heavy use of scripting, often through the use of full-motion video of either animated or live-action footage. Visual novel –  a type of adventure game featuring text accompanied by mostly static graphics, usually with anime-style art, or occasionally live-action stills or video footage

=== Role-playing video game ===:
    Role-playing video game (RPG): a video game genre with origins in pen-and-paper role-playing games such as Dungeons & Dragons, using much of the same terminology, settings and game mechanics. The player in RPGs controls one character, or several adventuring party members, fulfilling one or many quests. Action role-playing game –  a loosely defined subgenre of role-playing video games that incorporate elements of action or action-adventure games, emphasizing real-time action where the player has direct control over characters, instead of turn-based or menu-based combat. Hack and slash –  a type of gameplay that emphasizes combat. Role-playing shooter –  a subgenre, featuring elements of both shooter games and action RPGs. Dungeon crawl –  a type of scenario in fantasy role-playing games in which heroes navigate a labyrinthine environment, battling various monsters, and looting any treasure they may find. Roguelike –  a subgenre of role-playing video games, characterized by randomization for replayability, permanent death, and turn-based movement. MUD –  a multiplayer real-time virtual world, with the term usually referring to text-based instances of these. Massively multiplayer online role-playing game –  a genre of role-playing video games in which a very large number of players interact with one another within a persistent virtual world. Tactical role-playing game –  a subgenre of role-playing video games that incorporate elements of strategy video games

=== Simulation video game ===:
    Simulation video game –  a diverse super-category of video games, generally designed to closely simulate aspects of a real or fictional reality. Construction and management simulation –  a type of simulation game in which players build, expand or manage fictional communities or projects with limited resources. Business simulation game –  games that focus on the management of economic processes, usually in the form of a business. City-building game –  games in which players act as the overall planner and leader of a city, looking down on it from above, and being responsible for its growth and management. Government simulation game –  a game genre that attempts to simulate the government and politics of all or part of a nation. Life simulation game –  simulation video games in which the player lives or controls one or more virtual lifeforms. Virtual pet –  a type of artificial human companion, usually kept for companionship or enjoyment. Virtual pets are distinct in that they have no concrete physical form other than the computer they run on. God game –  a type of life simulation game that casts the player in the position of controlling the game on a large scale, as an entity with divine/supernatural powers, as a great leader, or with no specified character, and places them in charge of a game setting containing autonomous characters to guard and influence. Social simulation game –  a subgenre of life simulation games that explores social interactions between multiple artificial lives. Dating sim –  a subgenre of social simulation games that focuses on romantic relationships. Sports game –  games that simulate the practice of traditional sports.

=== Strategy video game ===:
    Strategy video game –  a genre that emphasizes skillful thinking and planning to achieve victory. They emphasize strategic, tactical, and sometimes logistical challenges. Many games also offer economic challenges and exploration. 4X game –  a genre in which players control an empire and "explore, expand, exploit, and exterminate". Artillery game –  the generic name for either early two- or three-player (usually turn-based) computer games involving tanks fighting each other in combat or similar derivative games. Real-time strategy (RTS) – a subgenre of strategy video game which does not progress incrementally in turns. Tower defense –  a genre where the goal of the game is to try to stop enemies from crossing a map by building towers which shoot at them as they pass. Real-time tactics –  a subgenre of tactical wargames played in real-time simulating the considerations and circumstances of operational warfare and military tactics, differentiated from real-time strategy gameplay by the lack of resource micromanagement and base or unit building, as well as the greater importance of individual units and a focus on complex battlefield tactics. Multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) – a hybrid of real-time strategy, role-playing and action video games where the objective is for the player's team to destroy the opposing side's main structure with the help of periodically spawned computer-controlled units that march towards the enemy's main structure. Tactical role-playing game –  a type of video game which incorporates elements of traditional role-playing video games and strategy games. Turn-based strategy –  a strategy game (usually some type of wargame, especially a strategic-level wargame) where players take turns when playing. Turn-based tactics –  a genre of strategy video games that through stop-action simulates the considerations and circumstances of operational warfare and military tactics in generally small-scale confrontations as opposed to more strategic considerations of turn-based strategy (TBS) games. Wargame –  a subgenre that emphasize strategic or tactical warfare on a map, as well as historical (or near-historical) accuracy.

=== Vehicle simulation game ===:
    Vehicle simulation game –  games in which the objective is to operate a manual or motor powered transport. Flight simulation video game –  a game where flying vehicles is the primary mode of operation. Combat flight simulator –  a type of game where players simulate the handling of military aircraft and their operations. Racing game –  a type of game where the player is in a racing competition. Driving simulator –  a type of game where the player is tasked with using a vehicle as if it were real. Sim racing –  a type of game where the player is tasked with using a realistic vehicle inside a racing competition. Space flight simulation game –  a type of game meant to emulate the experience of space flight. Submarine simulator –  a type of game where the player commands a submarine. Train simulator –  a simulation of rail transport operations. Vehicular combat game –  a type of game where vehicles with weapons are placed inside of an arena to battle.

=== Other genres ===:
    Adult game –  a game which has significant sexual content (like an adult movie), and are therefore intended for an adult audience. Eroge –  a Japanese video game that features erotic content, usually in the form of anime-style artwork. Advergame –  the practice of using video games to advertise a product, organization or viewpoint. Art game –  a video game that is designed in such a way as to emphasize art or whose structure is intended to produce some kind of reaction in its audience. Audio game –  an interactive electronic game wherein the only feedback device is audible rather than visual. Christian video game –  any video game centered around Christianity or Christian themes. Educational game –  video games that have been specifically designed to teach people about a certain subject, expand concepts, reinforce development, understand an historical event or culture, or assist them in learning a skill as they play. Fitness game –  video games that are also a form of exercise and rely on technology that tracks body movement or reaction. Maze video games –  video game genre description first used by journalists during the 1980s to describe any game in which the entire playing field was a maze. Music video game –  a video game where the gameplay is meaningfully and often almost entirely oriented around the player's interactions with a musical score or individual songs. Rhythm game –  games that challenge the player's sense of rhythm and focus on dance or the simulated performance of musical instruments, and require players to press buttons in a sequence dictated on the screen. Party video games: games commonly designed as a collection of simple minigames, designed to be intuitive and easy to control and to be played in multiplayer. Puzzle video game –  video games that emphasize puzzle solving, including logic, strategy, pattern recognition, sequence solving, and word completion. Serious game –  a video game designed for a primary purpose other than pure entertainment, generally referring to products used by industries like defense, education, scientific exploration, health care, emergency management, city planning, engineering, religion, and politics.

=== Other types of video games ===:
    Casual game –  a game of any genre that is targeted for a mass audience of casual gamers. Casual games typically have simple rules and require no long-term time commitment or special skills to play. Indie game –  games created by individuals or small teams without video game publisher financial support, often focusing on innovation and relying on digital distribution. Minigame –  a short or more simplistic video game often contained within another video game. Non-game –  software that lies on the border between video games, toys and applications, with the main difference between non-games and traditional video games being the apparent lack of goals, objectives and challenges. Programming game –  a game where the player has no direct influence on the course of the game. Instead a computer program or script is written that controls the actions of the characters.

== Video game hardware platforms ==:
    Arcade game –  a coin-operated entertainment machine, usually installed in public businesses such as restaurants, bars, and amusement arcades. Arcade games include video games, pinball machines, electro-mechanical games, redemption games, and merchandisers (such as claw machines). Arcade cabinet –  the housing within which a video arcade game's hardware resides.

List of pinball machines:
    Video game console –  a consumer entertainment device consisting of a customized computer system designed to run video games. Console game –  a video game played on a video game console.

List of best-selling game consoles:
    Dedicated console –  a video game console that is dedicated to a built in game or games, and is not equipped for additional games, via cartridges or other media. Console wars –  a term used to refer to periods of intense competition for market share between video game console manufacturers. Handheld game console –  a lightweight, portable consumer electronic device with a built-in screen, game controls and speakers. Handheld video game –  a video game played on a handheld game console. Mobile game –  a video game played on a mobile phone, smartphone, PDA, tablet computer or portable media player. Online game –  a game played over some form of computer network. Browser game –  a video game that is played over the Internet using a web browser. Massively multiplayer online game (MMO): a multiplayer video game which is capable of supporting hundreds or thousands of players simultaneously. PC game –  a video game played on a personal computer, rather than on a video game console or arcade machine.

=== Video game development ===:
    Video game development –  the software development process by which a video game is developed and video game developer is a software developer (a business or an individual) that creates video games. Video game developer –  a software developer (a business or an individual) that creates video games. Independent video game development –  the process of creating indie video games without the financial support of a video game publisher, usually designed by an individual or a small team. Game art design –  a process of creating 2D and 3D game art for a video game, such as concept art, item sprites, character models, etc. Video game artists: an artist who creates art for one or more types of games and are responsible for all of the aspects of game development that call for visual art. Video game graphics –  variety of individual computer graphic techniques that have evolved over time, primarily due to hardware advances and restrictions. Video game art –  the use of patched or modified video games or the repurposing of existing games or game structures. Concept art –  a form of illustration where the main goal is to convey a visual representation of a design, idea, and/or mood before it is put into the final product. Procedural texture –  a form of illustration where the main goal is to convey a visual representation of a design, idea, and/or mood for use in films, video games, animation, or comic books before it is put into the final product. 2D computer graphics –  computer-based generation of digital images—mostly from two-dimensional models (such as 2D geometric models, text, and digital images) and by techniques specific to them. 3D computer graphics –  graphics that use a three-dimensional representation of geometric data (often Cartesian) that is stored in the computer for the purposes of performing calculations and rendering 2D images. Game modification –  are made by the general public or a developer, and can be entirely new games in themselves, but mods are not standalone software and require the user to have the original release in order to run. Game music –  musical pieces or soundtracks and background musics found in video games ranging from a primitive synthesizer tune to an orchestral pieces and complex soundtracks. Game producer –  the person in charge of overseeing development of a video game. Game programming –  the programming of computer, console or arcade games. Game programmer –  a software engineer, programmer, or computer scientist who primarily develops codebase for video games or related software, such as game development tools. Game engine –  a system designed for the creation and development of video games. Game Artificial intelligence –  techniques used in computer and video games to produce the illusion of intelligence in the behavior of non-player characters (NPCs). Game publisher –  a company that publishes video games that they have either developed internally or have had developed by a video game developer. Game studies –  the discipline of studying games, their design, players, and their role in society and culture more broadly. Game testing –  a software testing process for quality control of video games, primary function being the discovery and documentation of software defects (aka bugs). Game journalism –  a branch of journalism concerned with the reporting and discussion of video games. Level design –  a discipline of game development involving creation of video game levels—locales, stages, or missions. Level editor (tool) –  a software tool used to design levels, maps, campaigns, etc. and virtual worlds for a video game. Video game design –  the process of designing the content and rules of a game in the pre-production stage and design of gameplay, environment, storyline, and characters during production stage.

==== By decade ====:
    1980s in video games 1990s in video games 2000s in video games 2010s in video games 2020s in video games

Prior to 1972:
    1970 · 1971 · 1972 · 1973 · 1974 · 1975 · 1976 · 1977 · 1978 · 1979 1980 · 1981 · 1982 · 1983 · 1984 · 1985 · 1986 · 1987 · 1988 · 1989 1990 · 1991 · 1992 · 1993 · 1994 · 1995 · 1996 · 1997 · 1998 · 1999 2000 · 2001 · 2002 · 2003 · 2004 · 2005 · 2006 · 2007 · 2008 · 2009 2010 · 2011 · 2012 · 2013 · 2014 · 2015 · 2016 · 2017 · 2018 · 2019 2020 · 2021 · 2022 · 2023 · 2024 · 2025 ·

== Process of design ==:
    Game design is part of a game's development from concept to final form. Typically, the development process is iterative, with repeated phases of testing and revision. During revision, additional design or re-design may be needed.

==== Game designer ====:
    A game designer (or inventor) is a person who invents a game's concept, central mechanisms,  rules, and themes. Game designers may work alone or in teams.

==== Game developer ====:
    A game developer is a person who fleshes out the details of a game's design, oversees its testing, and revises the game in response to player feedback. Often game designers also do development work on the same project. However, some publishers commission extensive development of games to suit their target audience after licensing a game from a designer. For larger games, such as collectible card games, designers and developers work in teams with separate roles.

==== Game artist ====:
    A game artist creates visual art for games. Game artists are often vital to role-playing games and collectible card games. Many graphic elements of games are created by the designer when producing a prototype of the game, revised by the developer based on testing, and then further refined by the artist and combined with artwork as a game is prepared for publication or release.

=== Concept ===:
    A game concept is an idea for a game, briefly describing its core play mechanisms, objectives, themes, and who the players represent. A game concept may be pitched to a game publisher in a similar manner as film ideas are pitched to potential film producers. Alternatively, game publishers holding a game license to intellectual property in other media may solicit game concepts from several designers before picking one to design a game.

=== Design ===:
    During design, a game concept is fleshed out. Mechanisms are specified in terms of components (boards, cards, tokens, etc.) and rules. The play sequence and possible player actions are defined, as well as how the game starts, ends, and win conditions (if any).

=== Prototypes and play testing ===:
    A game prototype is a draft version of a game used for testing. Uses of prototyping include exploring new game design possibilities and technologies. Play testing is a major part of game development. During testing, players play the prototype and provide feedback on its gameplay, the usability of its components, the clarity of its goals and rules, ease of learning, and entertainment value. During testing, various balance issues may be identified, requiring changes to the game's design. The developer then revises the design, components, presentation, and rules before testing it again. Later testing may take place with focus groups to test consumer reactions before publication.

=== Folk process ===:
    Many games have ancient origins and were not designed in the modern sense, but gradually evolved over time through play. The rules of these games were not codified until early modern times and their features gradually developed and changed through the folk process. For example, sports (see history of sports), gambling, and board games are known, respectively, to have existed for at least nine thousand, six thousand, and four thousand years. Tabletop games played today whose descent can be traced from ancient times include chess, go, pachisi, mancala, and pick-up sticks. These games are not considered to have had a designer or been the result of a contemporary design process. After the rise of commercial game publishing in the late 19th century, many games that had formerly evolved via folk processes became commercial properties, often with custom scoring pads or preprepared material. For example, the similar public domain games Generala, Yacht, and Yatzy led to the commercial game Yahtzee in the mid-1950s. Today, many commercial games, such as Taboo, Balderdash, Pictionary, or Time's Up!, are descended from traditional parlour games. Adapting traditional games to become commercial properties is an example of game design. Similarly, many sports, such as soccer and baseball, are the result of folk processes, while others were designed, such as basketball, invented in 1891 by James Naismith.

=== New media ===:
    The first games in a new medium are frequently adaptations of older games. Later games often exploit the distinctive properties of a new medium. Adapting older games and creating original games for new media are both examples of game design. Technological advances have provided new media for games throughout history. For example, accurate topographic maps produced as lithographs and provided free to Prussian officers helped popularize wargaming. Cheap bookbinding (printed labels wrapped around cardboard) led to mass-produced board games with custom boards. Inexpensive (hollow) lead figurine casting contributed to the development of miniature wargaming. Cheap custom dice led to poker dice. Flying discs led to Ultimate frisbee.

== Purposes ==:
    Games can be designed for entertainment, education, exercise or experimental purposes. Additionally, elements and principles of game design can be applied to other interactions, in the form of gamification. Games have historically inspired seminal research in the fields of probability, artificial intelligence, economics, and optimization theory. Applying game design to itself is a current research topic in metadesign.

=== Educational purposes ===:
    By learning through play children can develop social and cognitive skills, mature emotionally, and gain the self-confidence required to engage in new experiences and environments. Key ways that young children learn include playing, being with other people, being active, exploring and new experiences, talking to themselves, communicating with others, meeting physical and mental challenges, being shown how to do new things, practicing and repeating skills, and having fun. Play develops children's content knowledge and provides children the opportunity to develop social skills, competencies, and disposition to learn.  Play-based learning is based on a Vygotskian model of scaffolding where the teacher pays attention to specific elements of the play activity and provides encouragement and feedback on children's learning. When children engage in real-life and imaginary activities, play can be challenging in children's thinking. To extend the learning process, sensitive intervention can be provided with adult support when necessary during play-based learning.

== Design issues by game type ==:
    Different types of games pose specific game design issues.

=== Board games ===:
    Board game design is the development of rules and presentational aspects of a board game. When a player takes part in a game, it is the player's self-subjection to the rules that create a sense of purpose for the duration of the game. Maintaining the players' interest throughout the gameplay experience is the goal of board game design. To achieve this, board game designers emphasize different aspects such as social interaction, strategy, and competition, and target players of differing needs by providing for short versus long-play, and luck versus skill. Beyond this, board game design reflects the culture in which the board game is produced. The most ancient board games known today are over 5000 years old. They are frequently abstract in character and their design is primarily focused on a core set of simple rules. Of those that are still played today, games like go (c. 400 BC), mancala (c. 700 AD), and chess (c. 600 AD) have gone through many presentational and/or rule variations. In the case of chess, for example, new variants are developed constantly, to focus on certain aspects of the game, or just for variation's sake. Traditional board games date from the nineteenth and early twentieth century. Whereas ancient board game design was primarily focused on rules alone, traditional board games were often influenced by Victorian mores. Academic (e.g. history and geography) and moral didacticism were important design features for traditional games, and Puritan associations between dice and the Devil meant that early American game designers eschewed their use in board games entirely. Even traditional games that did use dice, like Monopoly (based on the 1906 The Landlord's Game), were rooted in educational efforts to explain political concepts to the masses. By the 1930s and 1940s, board game design began to emphasize amusement over education, and characters from comic strips, radio programmes, and (in the 1950s) television shows began to be featured in board game adaptations. Recent developments in modern board game design can be traced to the 1980s in Germany, and have led to the increased popularity of "German-style board games" (also known as "Eurogames" or "designer games"). The design emphasis of these board games is to give players meaningful choices. This is manifested by eliminating elements like randomness and luck to be replaced by skill, strategy, and resource competition, by removing the potential for players to fall irreversibly behind in the early stages of a game, and by reducing the number of rules and possible player options to produce what Alan R. Moon has described as "elegant game design". The concept of elegant game design has been identified by The Boston Globe's Leon Neyfakh as related to Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi's the concept of "flow" from his 1990 book, "Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience". Modern technological advances have had a democratizing effect on board game production, with services like Kickstarter providing designers with essential startup capital and tools like 3D printers facilitating the production of game pieces and board game prototypes. A modern adaptation of figure games are miniature wargames like Warhammer 40,000.

=== Card games ===:
    Card games can be designed as gambling games, such as Poker, or simply for fun, such as Go Fish. As cards are typically shuffled and revealed gradually during play, most card games involve randomness, either initially or during play, and hidden information, such as the cards in a player's hand. How players play their cards, revealing information and interacting with previous plays as they do so, is central to card game design. In partnership card games, such as Bridge, rules limiting communication between players on the same team become an important part of the game design. This idea of limited communication has been extended to cooperative card games, such as Hanabi.

=== Dice games ===:
    Dice games differ from card games in that each throw of the dice is an independent event, whereas the odds of a given card being drawn are affected by all the previous cards drawn or revealed from a deck. For this reason, dice game design often centers around forming scoring combinations and managing re-rolls, either by limiting their number, as in Yahtzee or by introducing a press-your-luck element, as in Can't Stop.

=== Casino games ===:
    Casino game design can entail the creation of an entirely new casino game, the creation of a variation on an existing casino game, or the creation of a new side bet on an existing casino game. Casino game mathematician, Michael Shackleford has noted that it is much more common for casino game designers today to make successful variations than entirely new casino games. Gambling columnist John Grochowski points to the emergence of community-style slot machines in the mid-1990s, for example, as a successful variation on an existing casino game type. Unlike the majority of other games which are designed primarily in the interest of the player, one of the central aims of casino game design is to optimize the house advantage and maximize revenue from gamblers. Successful casino game design works to provide entertainment for the player and revenue for the gambling house. To maximise player entertainment, casino games are designed with simple easy-to-learn rules that emphasize winning (i.e. whose rules enumerate many victory conditions and few loss conditions), and that provide players with a variety of different gameplay postures (e.g. card hands). Player entertainment value is also enhanced by providing gamblers with familiar gaming elements (e.g. dice and cards) in new casino games. To maximise success for the gambling house, casino games are designed to be easy for croupiers to operate and for pit managers to oversee. The two most fundamental rules of casino game design are that the games must be non-fraudable (including being as nearly as possible immune from advantage gambling) and that they must mathematically favor the house winning. Shackleford suggests that the optimum casino game design should give the house an edge of smaller than 5%.

=== Tabletop role-playing games ===:
    The design of tabletop role-playing games typically requires the establishment of setting, characters, and gameplay rules or mechanics. After a role-playing game is produced, additional design elements are often devised by the players themselves. In many instances, for example, character creation is left to the players. Early role-playing game theories developed on indie role-playing game design forums in the early 2000s.

== Game studies ==:
    Game design is a topic of study in the academic field of game studies. Game studies is a discipline that deals with the critical study of games, game design, players, and their role in society and culture. Prior to the late-twentieth century, the academic study of games was rare and limited to fields such as history and anthropology. As the video game revolution took off in the early 1980s, so did academic interest in games, resulting in a field that draws on diverse methodologies and schools of thought. Social scientific approaches have concerned themselves with the question of, "What do games do to people?" Using tools and methods such as surveys, controlled laboratory experiments, and ethnography, researchers have investigated the impacts that playing games have on people and the role of games in everyday life. Humanities approaches have concerned themselves with the question of, "What meanings are made through games?" Using tools and methods such as interviews, ethnographies, and participant observation, researchers have investigated the various roles that games play in people's lives and the meanings players assign to their experiences. From within the game industry, central questions include, "How can we create better games?" and,  "What makes a game good?" "Good" can be taken to mean different things, including providing an entertaining experience, being easy to learn and play, being innovative, educating the players, and/or generating novel experiences.

== Further reading ==:
    Mandeville, Alexia (2025). Video Game Design for Dummies. Wiley. ISBN 978-1-39430-817-0. Bates, Bob (2004). Game Design (2nd ed.). Thomson Course Technology. ISBN 978-1-59200-493-5. Baur, Wolfgang (2012). Complete Kobold Guide to Game Design. Open Design LLC. ISBN 978-1936781065. Burgun, Keith (2012). Game Design Theory: A New Philosophy for Understanding Games. A K Peters/CRC Press. ISBN 978-1466554207. Costikyan, Greg (2013). Uncertainty in Games. MIT Press. ISBN 978-0262018968. Elias, George Skaff (2012). Characteristics of Games. MIT Press. ISBN 978-0262017138. Hofer, Margaret (2003). The Games We Played: The Golden Age of Board & Table Games. Princeton Architectural Press. ISBN 978-1568983974. Huizinga, Johan (1971). Homo Ludens: A Study of the Play-Element in Culture. Beacon Press. ISBN 978-0807046814. Kankaanranta, Marja Helena (2009). Design and Use of Serious Games. Intelligent Systems, Control and Automation: Science and Engineering. Springer. ISBN 978-9048181414.. Moore, Michael E.; Novak, Jeannie (2010). Game Industry Career Guide. Delmar: Cengage Learning. ISBN 978-1-4283-7647-2. Norman, Donald A. (2002). The Design of Everyday Things. Basic Books. ISBN 978-0465067107.. Oxland, Kevin (2004). Gameplay and design. Addison Wesley. ISBN 978-0-321-20467-7. Peek, Steven (1993). The Game Inventor's Handbook. Betterway Books. ISBN 978-1558703155. Peterson, Jon (2012). Playing at the World. Unreason Press. ISBN 978-0615642048.. Salen Tekinbad, Katie (2003). Rules of Play: Game Design Fundamentals. The MIT Press. ISBN 978-0262240451.. Schell, Jesse (2008). The Art of Game Design: A book of lenses. CRC Press. ISBN 978-0123694966. Somberg, Guy (6 September 2018). Game Audio Programming 2: Principles and Practices. CRC Press 2019. ISBN 9781138068919. Archived from the original on 9 April 2022. Retrieved 18 October 2019. Tinsman, Brian (2008). The Game Inventor's Guidebook: How to Invent and Sell Board Games, Card Games, Role-Playing Games, & Everything in Between!. Morgan James Publishing. ISBN 978-1600374470. Woods, Stewart (2012). Eurogames: The Design, Culture and Play of Modern European Board Games. McFarland. ISBN 978-0786467976. Zubek, Robert (August 2020). Elements of Game Design. The MIT Press. ISBN 9780262043915.

== Level design ==:
    Level design or environment design, is a discipline of game development involving the making of video game levels—locales, stages or missions. This is commonly done using a level editor, a game development software designed for building levels; however, some games feature built-in level editing tools.

=== History ===:
    In the early days of video games (1970s–2000s), a single programmer would develop the maps and layouts for a game, and a discipline or profession, dedicated solely to level design did not exist. Early games often featured a level system of ascending difficulty as opposed to progression of storyline. An example of the former approach is the arcade shoot 'em up game Space Invaders (1978), where each level looks the same, repeating endlessly until the player loses all their lives. An example of the latter approach is the arcade platform game Donkey Kong (1981), which uses multiple distinct levels to progress a storyline; as Mario (originally called Jumpman) tries to rescue Pauline from Donkey Kong, each level ends with Kong fleeing with Pauline and then Mario having to complete a different level each time, until he finally confronts Kong. 1983's Lode Runner was one of the first titles to ship with a level editor. Its designer, Doug Smith, reputedly paid neighborhood children to design levels for the game. The same year, the multiplayer dungeon crawl Dandy was released, and it also shipped with a level editor which was documented in the manual. ZZT (1991) is a later game with user-accessible mapping and scripting. A game genre that required significant amounts of time to design areas were text-based games, such as MUDs. Often, promoted users were assigned to make new paths, new rooms, new equipment, and new actions, often using the game interface itself. 3D first-person shooters Doom (1993) and Doom II (1994) were two of the first games to attract focused game modding activity, and many WAD level files were made for them. One of the reasons was a clear separation between the level files and game engine itself. Half-Life, Quake 3, and many other games have notable mapping tools and communities focusing on user-generated content.

=== Process ===:
    Level design for each individual level in a modern game typically starts with concept art, sketches, renderings, and physical models. Once completed, these concepts transform into extensive documentation, environment modeling, and the placing of game specific entities (actors), usually with the aid of a level editor. A level editor may be distributed as a complete stand-alone package, at times, rivaling commercial 3D modelling software. There are various steps involved in laying out a map and these steps may vary dramatically across the many different game genres that exist as of the 2020s.

General steps include::
    Laying out the large-scale features of the map, such as hills, cities, rooms, tunnels, etc., for players and enemies to move around in; Determining environmental conditions and "ground rules" such as day/night, weather, scoring systems, allowable weapons or gameplay types, time limits, and starting resources. Specifying certain regions where certain gameplay activities or behaviors occur, such as resource harvesting, base building, water travelling, etc.; Specifying non-static parts of a level, such as doors, keys and buttons with associated mechanisms, teleporters, hidden passageways, etc.; Specifying locations of various entities, such as player units, enemies, monster spawn points, ladders, coins, resource nodes, weapons, save points, etc.;

Specifying the start and exit locations for one or more players;:
    Adding aesthetic details such as level-specific graphic textures, sounds, animation, lighting and music; Introducing scripted event locations, where certain actions by the player can trigger specified changes; Placing pathfinding nodes that non-player characters take as they walk around, the actions they will take in response to specific triggers, and any dialog they might have with the player. The first level of the game is usually designed to get players to explore the mechanics of the game, notably in World 1-1 of Super Mario Bros. Cut scenes may be triggered by events in a level, but require distinctly different skills, and may be produced by a different person or team. The level design process may be iterated several times before achieving the desired outcome. Level designers and concept artists may also be required to provide a pre-rendered map of the level (or entire game world) for the player.

=== Design goals ===:
    Level design is necessary for two primary purposes: providing players with a goal and providing players with enjoyable play experience. Good level design strives to produce quality gameplay, provide an immersive experience, and sometimes, especially in story-based games, to advance the storyline.

=== Player directing ===:
    Levels are generally constructed with flow control in mind; that is, directing the player towards the goal of the level and preventing confusion and idling. This can be accomplished by various means. Often the level layouts feature power-ups and items positioned so that collecting them inevitably makes the player move in the correct direction. This is one of the basic player direction techniques and is most often seen in platformers. Lighting and illumination, as well as distinctly-coloured objects, are often used to unambiguously guide the player towards the correct path. Similarly, clearly marked choke-points can be introduced. Another method is strategic placement of obstacles and aesthetic environment props that direct the player's attention to "clear" paths instead. This is often used in closed, "stuffed" environments. Levels may be designed to force the players to explore the map and advance. Most Real-Time Strategy maps give each player a starting base, but will have resource distribution and terrain features designed to draw players out of their base and engage each other. Teamplay maps can provide noticeable advantages to one team over another, when designed poorly.

=== Level streaming ===:
    Commonly on older hardware, most games would load a single level and all of its assets at one time, and when the player completed the level, the next level would be loaded. The player would be presented with a loading screen while the game loaded level information from storage. With more advanced computing hardware with faster input/output data transfer rates, such as optical drives, hard disk drives (HDDs), solid-state drives (SSDs), and larger amounts of memory, game developers have been able to take advantage of continuously loading new level assets – models, textures, and audio – into the computer or console's memory as the player approaches the edge of one level and the start of a new one. This can effectively make the transition from one level to another level appear to be seamless and avoid the use of loading screens. This is known as level streaming or in-game streaming, and is often used for open world games to give the perception of a fully-interconnected space. There are often tricks used to give the computer hardware sufficient time to load the assets for the next area. The player's speed may be reduced, while story cues are presented to draw the player's attention. The player may be required to enter areas in which their view of the world is plausibly restricted, sometimes referred to as "loading tunnels". With newer consoles, such as the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X and Series S, special SSD arrays alongside software libraries that have a total high data throughput can eliminate the need for any loading tunnels in a seamless world game.

== Level designer ==:
    A level designer is a game designer who makes environments and scenarios using a level editor and other tools. Level designers will usually work on a level from pre-production to completion – working with both incomplete and complete versions of the game. Video game programmers usually produce level editors and design tools for the designers to use. This eliminates the need for designers to access or modify game code. As opposed to the level editing tools sometimes available to the community, level designers often work with placeholders and prototypes aiming for level consistency and clear layout before required artwork is produced by game artists. Many level designers have skills as both a visual artist and game designer, although in recent years the responsibility for visual-, structural- and gameplay-related tasks has been increasingly divided among several specialists.

== Level creation tools ==:
    A wide variety of tools may be used by someone designing and making a level. Although it is faster to design models and textures with general-purpose multimedia development tools, games usually require the data to be in a unique format suited for that game's engine. For this, specific compilers and converters of models, textures, and audio data may be required to lay out a level. Sometimes, professional 3D editing software, such as 3D Studio Max, Blender, AutoCAD, Lightwave, Maya, Softimage XSI or Grome is used, usually customized with a special plugin developed for the specific game.

=== Level editor ===:
    A level editor (also known as a map, campaign or scenario editor) is a game development tool used to design levels, maps, campaigns and virtual worlds for a video game. An individual involved with the development of game levels is a level designer or mapper. In some cases, the developer of a video game includes built-in level editing tools; for example, a track editor for a racing game. Other times they may release an official level editor for the game as a separate application. Sometimes players of the game develop fan-made level editors. Developing level editors will allow the game creator to use the same load- and rendering routines as the game itself, and may make it easier and more pleasant to create levels. Developers of FOSS-games may argue that a game is not complete until other users easily can add new levels. One of the first 3D games which became popular partially due to level editors and fan-made maps, other game addons, and other works related to the game, was Doom. The development of various third-party editors led to the formation of an online community trading fan-made maps. A level editor is often limited to designing levels for only a certain game engine. Developing a level editor takes a lot of time; it is more time- and cost-efficient to release multiple games using the same engine instead of developing a new engine and level editor for each game. As level editors generally allow for limited game-development work, to make larger changes to a game than simply adding new levels, a software development kit (SDK) is sometimes needed.

=== Construction set ===:
    In the early years of video gaming, some games came with a utility called a "construction set". This was similar in many ways to a level editor. Some games used them to make extra levels, whereas others (like the Shoot-'Em-Up Construction Kit) used them as a means to develop a game rather than be a game in itself.

== Gameplay alteration ==:
    Maps' design can significantly impact the gameplay. For example, the gameplay may be shifted towards a platformer (by careful placement of platforms) or a puzzle game (by extensive use of buttons, keys, and doors). Some FPS maps may be designed to prevent sniping by not including any long hallways, while other maps may allow for a mix of sniping and closer combat. Gimmick maps are sometimes developed to explore selected features of gameplay, such as sniping or fist fighting. While they are briefly useful to level designers and interesting to experienced players, they are usually not included in final list of levels of the game because of their limited replay value.

=== Minigame ===:
    A minigame (also spelled mini-game or mini game, sometimes called a subgame or microgame) is a short video game often contained within another video game, and sometimes in application software or on a display of any form of hardware. A minigame contains different gameplay elements than the main game, may be optional, and is often smaller or more simplistic than the game in which it is contained. Minigames are sometimes also offered separately for free to promote the main game. Some minigames can also be bonus stages or secret levels. They are distinguishable from levels in that a level is an environment bound to a set of mechanics and rules that all defines all other normal levels in a game, whereas a minigame can use different rules and playstyles but may not necessarily be set in a different environment.

=== Hidden features ===:
    Level designers sometimes make hidden rooms and areas that usually require more effort for the player to reach or to notice. These usually give some additional rewards, such as ammo or powerups. They serve to induce players to explore. Sometimes, they serve as easter eggs, containing messages such as the level designers' names or pictures, or political or humorous messages. One of the first games with a 3D engine to feature hidden features was Wolfenstein 3D, where certain walls could be pushed to reveal hidden passages. Sometimes, a whole level may be designed as a secret level.

=== Bonus stage ===:
    A bonus stage (also known as a bonus level, special stage or bonus round) is a special level within a video game designed to reward the player or players, and typically allows the player to collect extra points or power-ups. Bonus stage either have no enemies or hazards, or replace the normal penalties for being struck by enemies or hazards with simply being thrown out of the bonus stage. Many bonus stages need to be activated or discovered in some manner, or certain conditions must be satisfied to access them. Otherwise, they appear after the player has completed a certain number of regular stages.

== Level bugs ==:
    There are many map bugs that level designers try to avoid, but sometimes go unnoticed for some time. A player might get stuck in map geometry with no way to escape or to die. A player might be able to find a specific spot where they do not have to move to gain experience, because monsters are constantly spawned but can be easily and immediately killed. In multiplayer maps, a player may be able to reach areas of the map designed to be inaccessible; for example, reaching an advantageous rooftop position and camping other players. A player might be able to fall out-of-bounds of a map where other players cannot reach them. Invisible walls are cited to be level design bugs, and might be "left-over geometry" from an earlier version of the level or an object's improperly aligned "collision box". In some cases, specific mapping tools can be designed to automatically detect problems such as falling "outside" a level, and reaching "stuck" areas. Careful level designers run these tools as the last step before releasing a new version of a level. In most cases, the best way to improve a map is by playtesting it with experienced players, and allowing them to try to exploit any problems.

== Definition ==:
    Due to "direct and active participation" of the player, video game genres differ from literary and film genres. Though one could state that Space Invaders is a science fiction video game, author Mark J.P. Wolf wrote that such a classification "ignores the fundamental differences and similarities which are to be found in the player's experience of the game". In contrast to the visual aesthetics of games, which can vary greatly, it is argued that it is interactivity characteristics that are common to all games. Like film genres, the names of video game genres have come about generally as a common understanding between the audience and the producers. Descriptive names of genres take into account the goals of the game, the protagonist and even the perspective offered to the player. For example, a first-person shooter is a game that is played from a first-person perspective and involves the practice of shooting. Whereas "shooter game" is a genre name, "first-person shooter" and "third-person shooter" are common subgenres of the shooter genre. Other examples of such prefixes are real-time, turn based, top-down and side-scrolling. Genre names may evolve over time. The platform game genre started as "climbing games", based on Steve Bloom's 1982 book Video Invaders, as they were inspired by games like Donkey Kong with ladders and jumping. The same term was used by the US and UK press in 1983, including magazines Electronic Games and TV Gamer. First-person shooters were originally known as "Doom clones" in the years following 1993's Doom, while the term "first-person shooters" became more common by around 2000. New genres emerge continuously throughout the history of video games, often due to the cross-pollination of ideas borrowed from different games into new ones. For example, the seminal text-based adventure game Colossal Cave Adventure directly inspired the Atari VCS game Adventure, but incorporating joystick control as in an action game rather than typed commands. Adventure served as the prototype of the action-adventure game genre that would be popularized by The Legend of Zelda. The target audience, underlying theme or purpose of a game are sometimes used as a genre identifier, such as with "Christian game" and "serious game" respectively. However, because these terms do not indicate anything about the gameplay of a video game, these are not considered genres.

== Classifications ==:
    Video game genres vary in specificity, with popular video game reviews using genre names varying from "action" to "baseball". In this practice, basic themes and more fundamental characteristics are used alongside each other. A game may combine aspects of multiple genres in such a way that it becomes hard to classify under existing genres. For example, because Grand Theft Auto III combined shooting, driving and roleplaying in an unusual way, it was hard to classify using existing terms. The term Grand Theft Auto clone has been used to describe games mechanically similar to Grand Theft Auto III. Similarly, the term roguelike has been developed for games that share similarities with Rogue. Elements of the role-playing genre, which focuses on storytelling and character growth, have been implemented in many different genres of video games. This is because the addition of a story and character enhancement to an action, strategy or puzzle video game does not take away from its core gameplay, but adds an incentive other than survival to the experience. In addition to gameplay elements, some games may be categorized by other schemes; such are typically not used as genres: By platform: generally to the nature of the computer hardware that the game is played on and not the specific branding. This would include game genres like mobile games for smartphone, tablet computers, or other similar portable devices; and browser games that can be played in a web browser. Identification of the type of hardware a game is played on implied certain limits to the type of gameplay that is available; a mobile game will typically lack as much action compared to a game playable on a home console or computer due to limitations on player input. By mode: referring to whether a game is single player, multiplayer, or variations on that, including massively multiplayer online (MMO) games, cooperative games, player versus environment (PvE) or player versus player (PvP) games, and so forth. By narrative: Classifying video games by their narrative style, such as science fiction or fantasy, is typically not used within the field, with the key exception of horror games, which broadly cover any game dealing with elements of horror fiction.

== Popularity ==:
    According to some analysts, the percentage of each broad genre in the best-selling physical games worldwide is broken down as follows. In the last decade, puzzle games have declined when measured by sales, however, on mobile, where the majority of games are free-to-play, this genre remains the most popular worldwide.

1995:
    Softalk 1980-1984: 2000 | VGC top 100: 2005 | ESA: 2010 | Sta: 2015

Action:
    Softalk 1980-1984: 61 | VGC top 100: 3 | ESA: 4 | Sta: 12

Adventure:
    Softalk 1980-1984: 11 | VGC top 100: 2 | ESA: 4 | Sta: 7

Fighting:
    Softalk 1980-1984:  | VGC top 100: 15 | ESA: 10 | Sta: 5

Platform:
    Softalk 1980-1984:  | VGC top 100: 10 | ESA: 7 | Sta: 10

Puzzle:
    Softalk 1980-1984:  | VGC top 100: 9 | ESA: 2 | Sta: 6

Racing:
    Softalk 1980-1984:  | VGC top 100: 6 | ESA: 6 | Sta: 13

Role-playing:
    Softalk 1980-1984: 18 | VGC top 100: 18 | ESA: 25 | Sta: 7

Shooter:
    Softalk 1980-1984:  | VGC top 100: 11 | ESA: 1 | Sta: 8

Simulation:
    Softalk 1980-1984:  | VGC top 100: 6 | ESA: 7 | Sta: 5

Sports:
    Softalk 1980-1984:  | VGC top 100: 9 | ESA: 19 | Sta: 17

Strategy:
    Softalk 1980-1984: 10 | VGC top 100: 7 | ESA: 8 | Sta: 3

Misc:
    Softalk 1980-1984:  | VGC top 100: 4 | ESA: 7 | Sta: 7

2D ( sprites ):
    2D gameplay: (Also known as single-plane or side-scrolling ) After the War - Dinamic Multimedia Altered Beast - Sega Astro Boy: Omega Factor - Treasure / Sega Atrog - Zafiro Bad Dudes vs. DragonNinja / DragonNinja - Data East / Imagine Entertainment Bad Street Brawler / Street Hassle / Bop' N Rumble - Beam Software Batman: The Brave and the Bold Batman Forever - Probe Entertainment ( Game Gear , PC ), Acclaim Entertainment ( SNES , Genesis , Game Boy ) Billy 2 - Loriciels Black Belt - Sega Bob Winner - Loriciels Bronx - Animagic Bruce Lee - Datasoft China Gate - Technōs China Warrior - Hudson Soft Dan the Man - Halfbrick Studios Deathkick - Blaby Computer Games Dragon Ball: Advanced Adventure - Dimps Eightman - Pallas Guardian Heroes - Treasure Fighting Warrior / Kung-Fu II: Sticks of Death - Melbourne House Freddy Hardest in South Manhattan / Guardian Angel / The Guardian Angel - Imagine Entertainment / Codemasters Gladiator - Taito Hammerfist - Vivid Image I Am The Hero - Crazyant International Ninja Rabbits - Microvalue Karateka - Broderbund Knight Force - Titus Software Kung-Fu Master - Irem Last Action Hero - Sony Imagesoft Mad Stalker: Full Metal Force - Family Soft / Fill-in-Cafe Marvel Super Heroes: War of the Gems - Capcom Michael Jackson's Moonwalker - Sega My Hero - Sega Ninja /Ninja Mission - Sculptured Software / Mastertronic The Ninja Warriors series The Ninja Warriors - Taito Ninja Warriors - Natsume Co., Ltd. ( SNES ) Panzer Bandit - Fill-in-Cafe Power and Magic - Zigurat Power Rangers series Mighty Morphin Power Rangers - Natsume Co., Ltd. ( SNES ) Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie - Sims , Bandai ( SNES ) Power Rangers: Time Force - Vicarious Visions Power Rangers: Ninja Storm - Natsume Co., Ltd. Rapid Angel -Techno Soleil Red Heat - Ocean Rescate en el Golfo - OperaSoft Running Battle - Sega Saboteur - Durell Shanghai Warriors - Players Shank series - Klei Entertainment Shank Shank 2 S.P.Y Special Project Y - Konami Spartan X series - Irem Kung-Fu Master / Spartan X Spartan X 2 Splatterhouse series - Namco Splatterhouse Splatterhouse: Wanpaku Graffiti Splatterhouse 2 Street Gang - Time Warp Subway Vigilante - Players Teen Titans ( GBA ) - A2M Tiny Toon Adventures: Buster's Bad Dream - Treasure Top Hunter: Roddy & Cathy - SNK Two Crude - Data East Vigilante - Irem X-Men: Mutant Apocalypse - Capcom X-Men: Mutant Wars - Matrix Software Way of the Tiger - Gremlin Interactive Western Express / Express Raider - Data East Wild Streets - Titus Software | 3D gameplay: (Also known as belt scroll ) Act of Fighter - SoftStar 64th Street: A Detective Story - Jaleco Advance Guardian Heroes / Guardian Heroes 2 - Treasure Alien Storm - Sega Alien vs. Predator ( Arcade ) - Capcom Alien vs Predator ( SNES ) - Jorudan Arabian Fight - Sega Arabian Magic - Taito Armored Warriors / Powered Gear: Strategic Variant Armor Equipment - Capcom Asterix - Konami Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker ( GBC ) - Kemco Batman Forever: The Arcade Game - Iguana Entertainment Batman Returns ( SNES ) - Konami Batman Returns ( NES ) - Konami Battle Circuit - Capcom Battletoads series - Rare Battletoads (1991 video game) Battletoads & Double Dragon Battletoads in Battlemaniacs - Rare ( SNES ), Virgin Interactive ( SMS ) Battletoads / Super Battletoads Beats of Rage - Senile Team Big Fight: Big Trouble in the Atlantic Ocean - Tatsumi Black Touch '96 - DGRM Blade Master - Irem Brute Force - Leland Corporation Bucky O'Hare - Konami Burning Fight - SNK Cartoon Network: Battle Crashers - Magic Pockets Cadillacs and Dinosaurs / Cadillacs Kyouryuu Shin Seiki - Capcom Captain America and The Avengers - Data East Captain Commando - Capcom Castle Crashers - The Behemoth Charlie Murder - Ska Studios Cliffhanger - Sony Imagesoft The Combatribes - Technōs Japan Corsarios - OperaSoft Crime Fighters series - Konami Crime Fighters Vendetta / Crime Fighters 2 Violent Storm / Crime Fighters 3 Crows: The Battle Action - Athena The Crystal of Kings - BrezzaSoft Cyborg Justice - Novotrade International D. D. Crew - Sega Dark Judgement - Frankenstein Studio The Death and Return of Superman - Blizzard Entertainment / Sunsoft Defenders of Dynatron City - Lucasfilm Denjin Makai series - Banpresto Denjin Makai Guardians / Denjin Makai II DJ Boy series - Kaneko DJ Boy B.Rap Boys! Double Dragon series - Technōs Japan Double Dragon (video game) Double Dragon II: The Revenge Double Dragon 3: The Rosetta Stone - East Technology Super Double Dragon / Double Dragon 4 Double Dragon Neon Dragon Bowl - Nics Dragon's Crown - Vanillaware - Atlus Dungeon & Guarder - Game Park Dungeons & Dragons series - Capcom Dungeons & Dragons: Tower of Doom Dungeons & Dragons: Shadow over Mystara Dungeon Fighter Online - Neople Dungeon Magic / Lightbringer - Taito Dynamite Düx - Sega Electronic Popple - Byteshock Fight'N Rage - Seba Games Dev Final Fight series - Capcom Final Fight Mighty Final Fight - Capcom Final Fight 2 / Fainaru Faito 2 Final Fight 3 / Final Fight Tough / Fainaru Faito Tafu Final Vendetta - Bitmap Bureau Franko series - Blue Sunset Games Franko: The Crazy Revenge - World Software Skinny & Franko: Fists of Violence - Blue Sunset Games Gaiapolis - Konami Gaia Crusaders - Noise Factory Gang Wars - Alpha Denshi Gekido Advance: Kintaro's Revenge - Naps Team The Gladiator  / Shen Jian Fu Mo Lu / Shen Jian Fengyun - International Games System Golden Axe series - Sega Golden Axe Golden Axe II Golden Axe: The Revenge of Death Adder Golden Axe III Gourmet Warriors / Gurume Sentai Barayarō - Virgin Interactive / Piko Interactive Growl - Taito Guardians of the 'Hood - Atari Games Hachoo! - Jaleco Her Knights: All for Princess - Byulbram Hook ( Arcade ) - Irem Jackie Chan Adventures: Legend of the Dark Hand - Torus Games Judge Dredd (unreleased) - Midway Games Justice League Heroes: The Flash - WayForward Technologies Iron Commando - Arcade Zone Kabuki-Z - Kaneko Karate Blazers - Video System The King of Dragons - Capcom Knights of the Round - Capcom Knights of Valour series - International Games System Knights of Valour Knights of Valour 2 Knights of Valour 3 Knights of Valour: The Seven Spirits - International Games System, Sega Sammy Holdings Knuckle Bash series - Toaplan Knuckle Bash Knuckle Bash 2 Lethal Weapon ( NES , Game Boy ) - Ocean Kozure Ookami - Nichibutsu Kung Food - Atari Corporation Kunio-kun series - Technōs Japan Renegade / Nekketsu Kōha Kunio-kun River City Ransom / Street Gangs / Downtown Nekketsu Monogatari - Technōs ( NES ), Million ( GBA ), SPS ( X68000 ), KID ( TurboGrafx-16 ) Double Dragon II/ Nekketsu Kōha Kunio-kun: Bangai Rantō-hen / Kunio-kun 3 ( Game Boy ) Downtown Special: Kunio-kun's Historical Period Drama! / Kunio-kun 4 Shodai Nekketsu Kōha Kunio-kun / Kunio-kun 5 Shin Nekketsu Kōha: Kunio-tachi no Banka / Kunio-kun 6 River City Ransom: Underground - Conatus Creative Inc. River City Girls - Arc System Works Last Action Hero ( Amiga ) - The Dome Legend - Arcade Zone Legend (1998 remake) - Toka Legend of Heroes - Limenko The Legend of Silkroad series - UNiCO Electronics The Legend of Silkroad Age Of Heroes - Silkroad 2 Legionnaire - TAD Little Fighter series Little Fighter - Marti Wong Little Fighter 2 - Marti Wong, Starsky Wong Little Fighter Online - Marti Wong, Oscar Chu Mazin Saga: Mutant Fighter - Dynamic Planning Metro-Active X - Metro-Star Metamorphic Force - Konami Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie - Banpresto ( Genesis ) Mighty Morphin Power Rangers Rita's rewind - digital eclipse Mother Russia Bleeds - Le Cartel Studio Mug Smashers - Electronic Devices, 3D Games Mutant Rampage: Bodyslam ( CD-i ) - Animation Magic Mutation Nation - SNK Nekketsu Oyako - Technosoft Night Slashers - Data East Ninja Baseball Bat Man - Irem Ninja Clowns - Strata , Incredible Technologies Ninja Combat - Alpha Denshi Ninja Gaiden / Shadow Warriors - Tecmo Ninja Kids - Taito Oriental Legend series - International Games System Oriental Legend Oriental Legend Super Oriental Legend Super Plus Oriental Legend 2 The Pirates of Dark Water ( SNES ) - Sunsoft P.O.W.: Prisoners of War - SNK Pu·Li·Ru·La - Taito The Punisher - Capcom Raging Justice - MakinGames Renegade series Renegade / Nekketsu Kōha Kunio-kun - Technōs / Imagine Entertainment Target: Renegade - Imagine Entertainment Renegade III: The Final Chapter - Imagine Entertainment Riot Zone - Westone Bit Entertainment Riot City - Sega, Westone Rival Turf! / Rushing Beat series - Jaleco Rival Turf! / Rushing Beat Brawl Brothers / Rushing Beat Ran Fukusei Toshi The Peace Keepers / Rushing Beat Syura Robo Army - SNK San Guo Yan Yi: Huo Shao Chi Bi - Gamtec ( Mega Drive ) Sailor Moon series - Angel Sailor Moon - Angel ( SNES ), Arc System Works ( Genesis ) Sailor Moon R Pretty Soldier Sailor Moon - Gazelle , Banpresto Scott Pilgrim vs. the World: The Game - Ubisoft Sengoku series - SNK Sengoku Sengoku 2 Sengoku 3 - Noise Factory Shadow Force - Technōs Shingen Samurai-Fighter / Takeda Shingen - Jaleco Silent Dragon - Taito The Simpsons Arcade Game - Konami Sonic Blast Man series - Taito Sonic Blast Man Sonic Blast Man II Spider-Man series - Software Creations Spider-Man and Venom: Maximum Carnage Venom/Spider-Man: Separation Anxiety Spider-Man: The Video Game - Sega Splatterhouse 3 - Now Production Stone Protectors - Kemco Storm series Eojjeonji Joheun Il-i Saenggil Geot Gateun Jeonyeok - TG Entertainment Storm: Eojjeonji Joheun Il-i Saenggil Geot Gateun Jeonyeok 2 - MOOV Generation Streets of Fury - Cyrille Lagarigue / Jordi Asensio Streets of Rage series - Sega Streets of Rage Streets of Rage 2 - Ancient / H.I.C. / Shout! Designworks Streets of Rage 3 Streets of Rage 4 Streets of Rage Remake - unofficial fangame Tecmo Knight / Wild Fang - Tecmo The TakeOver - DANGEN Entertainment Three Dirty Dwarves - Sega The Friends of Ringo Ishikawa - Yeo The Tick - Software Creations Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles series Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles - Konami Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Turtles in Time - Konami Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III: The Manhattan Project - Konami Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Hyperstone Heist - Konami TMNT ( GBA ) - Ubisoft Tenchi wo Kurau series - Capcom Dynasty Tribute wo Kurau Warriors of Fate / Tenchi wo Kurau II: Sekiheki no Tatakai Tough Turf - Sega, Sunsoft Ultra Toukon Densetsu - Banpresto / Tsuburaya Productions Ultraverse Prime / Microcosm - Sony Imagesoft Undercover Cops - Irem Vamf x1/2 - Danbi / F2 System Violent Storm - Konami Warrior Blade: Rastan Saga Episode III - Taito Water Margin: A Tale of Cloud and Wind - Piko Interactive Water Margin: Heroes of the Marsh / Shuihuzhuan: Liangshan Yingxiong - Panda Entertainment West Adventure / Xi You Ji - Panda Entertainment Wild C.A.T.s - Playmates Interactive X-Men - Konami X-Men: Reign of Apocalypse - Digital Eclipse Yang Jia Jiang - Yang Warrior Family - Sanxun Information Co. Zero Team - Seibu Kaihatsu

3D (polygons):
    2D gameplay: (Also known as 2.5D ) Fairy Bloom Freesia - Edelweiss / Nyu Media Spider-Man: Web of Shadows - Treyarch / Shaba Games ( PSP , PS2 ), Griptonite Games ( NDS ) Viewtiful Joe series - Clover Studio Viewtiful Joe Viewtiful Joe 2 Viewtiful Joe: Red Hot Rumble Viewtiful Joe: Double Trouble! | 3D gameplay: Anarchy Reigns - PlatinumGames Asura's Wrath - CyberConnect2 Ben 10: Protector of Earth - High Voltage Software Batman: Rise of Sin Tzu - Ubisoft Montreal Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker - Kemco Beat Down: Fists of Vengeance - Capcom The Bouncer - DreamFactory , Square Capoeira Legends - Donsoft Entertainment Crisis Beat - Bandai Cowboy Bebop: Serenade of Reminiscence - Bandai Crimson Tears - Capcom The Crow: City of Angels - Gray Matter Dead Rising - Capcom Death by Degrees - Namco Demolish Fist - Sammy , Dimps Dynamite Deka series - AM1 Die Hard Arcade / Dynamite Deka - AM1 , Sega Technical Institute Dynamite Cop / Dynamite Deka 2 Dynamite Deka EX: Asian Dynamite EOE: Eve of Extinction - Eidos Interactive Fantastic Four - Acclaim Entertainment Fighting Force series - Core Design Fighting Force Fighting Force 2 Final Fight: Streetwise - Capcom , Secret Level Gekido - Naps Team , Gremlin Interactive God Hand - Clover Studio Jackie Chan Stuntmaster - Radical Entertainment Jet Li: Rise to Honor - Sony Kenka Bancho: Badass Rumble - Atlus Kung Fu Strike - The Warriors Rise - PC , Xbox 360 MadWorld - PlatinumGames Mortal Kombat: Shaolin Monks - Midway Games , Paradox Development Mortal Kombat: Special Forces - Midway Games Minority Report: Everybody Runs - Activision Naruto: Uzumaki Cronicles series Naruto: Uzumaki Chronicles - Cavia Naruto: Uzumaki Chronicles 2 - Bandai Perfect Weapon - Gray Matter Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue - THQ Power Rangers Megaforce - Bandai Namco Games Power Rangers Super Megaforce - Bandai Namco Entertainment The Rage - FluidGames Sifu (video game) - Sloclap Spikeout series - Sega Spikeout: Digital Battle Online Slash Out Spikeout: Battle Street Spyborgs - Bionic Games State of Emergency - VIS Entertainment Transformers: Prime – The Game - Activision Tokyo Beat Down - Atlus Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles series - Konami Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2: Battle Nexus Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3: Mutant Nightmare TMNT - Ubisoft Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles - Magic Pockets Urban Reign - Namco Wario World - Treasure The Warriors - Rockstar Toronto ( PS2 , Xbox ), Rockstar Leeds ( PSP ) Watchmen: The End Is Nigh - Deadline Games X2: Wolverine's Revenge - GenePool Software X-Men: The Official Game - Z-Axis Yakuza / Ryū ga Gotoku series - Sega Kurohyō: Ryū ga Gotoku Shinshō Yakuza Yakuza 0 Yakuza 2 Yakuza 3 Yakuza 4 Yakuza 5 Yakuza 6 Yakuza Kiwami Yakuza Kiwami 2 Zombie Revenge - Sega

=== 2D ===:
    Fighting games that use 2D sprites. Games tend to emphasize the height of attacks (high, medium or low) and jumping.

=== 2.5D ===:
    2.5D fighting games are displayed in full 3D graphics, but the movement and gameplay is based on traditional 2D style games.

=== 3D ===:
    3D fighting games add three-dimensional movement. These often emphasize sidestepping.

== Weapon-based ==:
    Adding melee weapons to a fighting game often makes attack range more of a factor, as opponents may wield a sword, knife, katana or other kind of weapon of drastically different sizes.

== Tag team-based ==:
    Fighting games that feature tag teams as the core gameplay element. Teams of players may each control a different character, or a single player may control multiple characters, but play one at a time. Other fighters feature tag-teaming as an alternate game mode.

Tatsunoko vs. Capcom – Capcom/Eighting:
    Marvel vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds / Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3 – Capcom/Eighting

== Platform fighters ==:
    While traditional 2D/3D fighting game mechanics are more or less descendants of Street Fighter II, platform fighters tend to blend fighting with elements taken from platform games. A typical match is arranged as a battle royal. Compared to traditional fighting games, attack inputs are simpler and emphasis is put on dynamic maneuvering in the arena, using the level design to gain an advantage. Another major gameplay element involves using items, which may randomly spawn anywhere in the arena. Other terms which were used to refer to this sub-genre included "Smash Clones", "Party Brawler", "Party Fighter", and "Arena Fighter" (that is also being used to define another style of 3D fighting game).

== Arena fighters ==:
    Arena Fighters usually focus on more free-controlling 3D movement and camera which follows the character, unlike other traditional 3D fighting games such as the Tekken series that still maintain the sideview and side-scrolling orientation to the attacks, and normally put emphasis on offense over defense. Games are often based on popular anime series or other IPs.

== 4-way simultaneous fighting ==:
    Games in which four players face off at once. Other games may feature 4-way fighting as alternate game modes, but here it is more central to the way the game is usually played.

== Sports (combat) subgenres ==:
    Sports-based combat (also known as sport-fighters or combat sports games) are games that fall firmly within both the Combat and Sports game genres. Such games are usually based on boxing, mixed martial arts, and wrestling, and each sport is seen as their own separate subgenres. The combat is often far more realistic than combat in fighting games (though the amount of realism can vary greatly), and many feature real-world athletes and franchises.

=== Boxing ===:
    Boxing games go back further than any other kind of fighting game, starting with Sega's Heavyweight Champ in 1976, the game often called the first video game to feature hand-to-hand fighting. Fighters wear boxing gloves and fight in rings, and fighters can range from actual professional boxers to aliens to Michael Jackson.

=== Boxing management ===:
    Boxing games where combat is not directly human-controlled in the ring. Instead, a boxer is trained via a resource management game scheme, and bouts are directed via instructions given prior to each round.

=== Mixed martial arts ===:
    While most versus fighting games could be considered mixed martial arts games, listed here are games that are based on actual MMA franchises or tournaments.

Astral Bout / Sougou Kakutougi Astral Bout – King Records:
    Astral Bout 2 / Sougou Kakutougi Astral Bout 2 The Total Fighters – King Records Astral Bout 3 / Fighting Network Rings: Astral Bout 3 / Sougou Kakutougi Astral Bout 3 – King Records

The Wild Rings Xbox 2003:
    Ultimate Fighting Championship – Anchor Inc.

=== Wrestling ===:
    Wrestling games are either based on or have elements of wrestling, such as professional wrestling, grappling, or the wrestling ring itself. Wrestling video games based on WWE/WWF properties.

=== Ball/Disc sports ===:
    Games involving flying objects that can include balls and discs, where the players can only interact with each other through the object, and may or may not feature goalposts.

=== Anime-based fighting games ===:
    Games based on popular anime series and 3D variants often feature cell shading. "Anime fighters" also usually have very fast-paced action and put emphasis on offense over defense. Another common feature is that they typically have fighting systems built around doing long combos of dozens of attacks. Overall they appear in a variety of fighting game sub-genres.

=== Crossover ===:
    Fighting games featuring characters from more than one franchise. Typically, these consist of characters across multiple game and/or comic franchises. Others are initially singular franchises featuring guest characters, often via DLC.

=== Eroge ===:
    Fighting eroge (erotic games). Fighting games with pornographic elements.

=== Mech ===:
    Fighters with a mecha or robot theme.

=== Monster/Kaiju ===:
    These games feature monsters as playable characters, usually set in destructible city environments.

=== RPG ===:
    Fighting games with RPG elements, like character building or variable storylines.

=== Super deformed ===:
    Super deformed refers to a popular type of Japanese caricature where the subject is made to have exaggerated toddler-like features, such as an oversized head and short chubby limbs. Their movements and expressions while super deformed also tend to be exaggerated.

=== Music ===:
    Fighting Games with Music elements.

=== Flyting ===:
    Fighting Games with resembling traditional fighting game genre or subgenre but combatants take place exclusively in the air with or without any vehicles.

== List ==:
    Initially items sorted alphabetically by "title". The table can be sorted by a different column via clicking on the small box next to column heading.

GoldenEye 007:
    Developer: Rare | Platform(s): N64, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 1997-08-23

007: The World Is Not Enough:
    Developer: Eurocom , Black Ops Entertainment | Platform(s): N64, PS1 | Release date: 2000-10-17

007: Agent Under Fire:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores , EA Canada | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2001-11-13

007: Nightfire:
    Developer: Eurocom , Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN, GBA, OSX | Release date: 2002-11-19

GoldenEye: Rogue Agent:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN, DS | Release date: 2004-11-22

007: Quantum of Solace:
    Developer: Treyarch , Beenox | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, Wii | Release date: 2008-10-31

007 Legends:
    Developer: Eurocom | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU | Release date: 2012-10-16

3D Monster Chase:
    Developer: Romik | Platform(s): CPC, ZX | Release date: 1984

7554:
    Developer: Emobi Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-12-16

Ace of Spades:
    Developer: Ben Aksoy | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-04-04

Alien Arena:
    Developer: COR Entertainment | Platform(s): BSD (Free), LIN, OSX (unsupported), WIN | Release date: 2005-10-31

Alien Breed 3D:
    Developer: Team17 | Platform(s): AMI, AMI32 | Release date: 1995

Alien Breed 3D II: The Killing Grounds:
    Developer: Team17 | Platform(s): AMI, AMI32 | Release date: 1996

Alien Rage:
    Developer: CI Games | Platform(s): WIN, PSN, XBLA | Release date: 2013-09-24

Alien Trilogy:
    Developer: Probe Entertainment | Platform(s): DOS, PS1, SAT | Release date: 1996-02-29

Alien: Resurrection:
    Developer: Argonaut Games | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 2000-10-10

Aliens: Colonial Marines:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2013-02-13

Alien vs Predator:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): JAG | Release date: 1994-10-20

Aliens versus Predator:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, MAC, OSX | Release date: 1999-05-13

Aliens versus Predator 2:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN, OSX | Release date: 2001-10-30

Aliens vs. Predator:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-02-16

Alliance of Valiant Arms:
    Developer: Red Duck Inc. | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007

Alpha Prime:
    Developer: Black Element Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-12-21

America's Army:
    Developer: United States Army | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX (dropped) | Release date: 2002-07-04

Amid Evil:
    Developer: Indefatigable | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2019-06-20

Apex Legends:
    Developer: Respawn Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S, iOS, DROID, NX2 | Release date: 2019-02-04

AquaNox:
    Developer: Massive Development | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001-11-30

AquaNox 2: Revelation:
    Developer: Massive Development | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-07-22

Area 51:
    Developer: Midway Studios Austin | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-04-25

Arma: Armed Assault:
    Developer: Bohemia Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-11-10

Arma 2:
    Developer: Bohemia Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-06-26

Arma 2: Operation Arrowhead:
    Developer: Bohemia Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2010-06-29

Arma: Cold War Assault:
    Developer: Bohemia Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-06-22

Arma 3:
    Developer: Bohemia Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2013-09-13

Armorines: Project S.W.A.R.M.:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios London | Platform(s): N64, PS1 | Release date: 1999-11-30

AssaultCube:
    Developer: Rabid Viper Productions | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX, DROID | Release date: 2021-05-10

Atomic Heart:
    Developer: Mundfish | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-02-21

Avatar: Frontiers of Pandora:
    Developer: Massive Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-12-07

Back 4 Blood:
    Developer: Turtle Rock Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-10-12

Back Track:
    Developer: JV Games | Platform(s): WIN, GBA | Release date: 1998

Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever:
    Developer: Crawfish Interactive | Platform(s): GBA | Release date: 2002-09-14

Battle Frenzy:
    Developer: Domark | Platform(s): GEN, SCD | Release date: 1994

Battle: Los Angeles:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PSN, XBLA | Release date: 2011-03-11

Battleborn:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-05-03

Battlefield 1942:
    Developer: Digital Illusions CE | Platform(s): WIN, OSX | Release date: 2002-09-10

Battlefield Vietnam:
    Developer: Digital Illusions Canada | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2004-03-14

Battlefield 2:
    Developer: Digital Illusions CE | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-06-21

Battlefield 2: Modern Combat:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, X360 | Release date: 2005-10-25

Battlefield 2142:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): WIN, OSX | Release date: 2006-10-18

Battlefield: Bad Company:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-06-23

Battlefield 1943:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): PSN, XBLA | Release date: 2009-07-08

Battlefield: Bad Company 2:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2010-03-02

Battlefield 3:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-10-25

Battlefield 4:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2013-10-29

Battlefield Hardline:
    Developer: Visceral Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2015-03-17

Battlefield 1:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-10-21

Battlefield V:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-10-19

Battlefield 2042:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-11-19

Battlefield 6:
    Developer: Battlefield Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-10-10

Battleship:
    Developer: Double Helix Games | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-04-18

Battlezone:
    Developer: Atari | Platform(s): Arcade | Release date: 1980–11

Bet On Soldier: Blood Sport:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-09-26

Betrayer:
    Developer: Blackpowder Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2014-03-24

BioShock:
    Developer: Irrational Games | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS3, OSX, iOS, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2007-08-21

BioShock 2:
    Developer: 2K Marin | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2010-02-09

BioShock Infinite:
    Developer: Irrational Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2013-03-26

BioShock Infinite: Burial at Sea:
    Developer: Irrational Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2013-11-12

Black:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2006-02-24

Black Mesa:
    Developer: Crowbar Collective | Platform(s): WIN, LIN | Release date: 2012-09-14

Blacklight: Tango Down:
    Developer: Zombie Studios | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS3 | Release date: 2010-07-07

Blacklight: Retribution:
    Developer: Zombie Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4 | Release date: 2012-04-03

BlackSite: Area 51:
    Developer: Midway Studios Austin | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-11-12

Blake Stone: Aliens of Gold:
    Developer: JAM Productions | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1993-12-03

Blake Stone: Planet Strike:
    Developer: JAM Productions | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1994-10-28

Blood:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-03-05

Blood: Plasma Pak:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-10-15

Blood II: The Chosen:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-11-25

Blood II: The Chosen – The Nightmare Levels:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-08-01

Blood: Fresh Supply:
    Developer: Nightdive Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2019-05-09

Bodycount:
    Developer: Codemasters Guildford | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-08-30

Boiling Point: Road to Hell:
    Developer: Deep Shadows | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-05-20

White Gold: War in Paradise:
    Developer: Deep Shadows | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-10-24

Borderlands:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2009-10-20

Borderlands 2:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, PS3, X360, PSV, LIN, PS4, XOne, DROID, NX | Release date: 2012-09-21

Borderlands: The Pre-Sequel:
    Developer: 2K Australia | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2014-10-14

Borderlands 3:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, OSX, PS5, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2019-09-13

Tiny Tina's Wonderlands:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-03-25

Borderlands 4:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S, NX2 | Release date: 2025-09-12

Boundary:
    Developer: Studio Surgical Scalpels | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2023-04-13

BRAHMA Force: The Assault on Beltlogger 9:
    Developer: Genki | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1996-11-15

Bram Stoker's Dracula:
    Developer: TAG | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1993–09

Breach:
    Developer: Atomic Games | Platform(s): WIN, XBLA | Release date: 2011-01-26

Breed:
    Developer: Brat Designs | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2004-03-19

Bright Memory:
    Developer: FYQD Personal Studio | Platform(s): iOS, DROID, WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2019-11-01

Bright Memory: Infinite:
    Developer: FYQD Personal Studio | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S, NX, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2021-11-11

Brink:
    Developer: Splash Damage | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-05-10

Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-03-01

Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-10-04

Brothers in Arms: D-Day:
    Developer: Gearbox Software , Ubisoft Shanghai | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2006-12-05

Brothers in Arms: Double Time:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): Wii, OSX | Release date: 2008-09-23

Brothers in Arms: Hell's Highway:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-09-23

Brothers in Arms 2: Global Front:
    Developer: Gameloft Romania | Platform(s): iOS, DROID | Release date: 2010-02-22

Bulletstorm:
    Developer: People Can Fly , Epic Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne, NX, PSVR | Release date: 2011-02-22

Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth:
    Developer: Headfirst Productions | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN | Release date: 2005-10-24

Call of Duty:
    Developer: Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, NGE, PSN, XBLA | Release date: 2003-10-29

Call of Duty: United Offensive:
    Developer: Gray Matter Studios | Platform(s): WIN, OSX | Release date: 2004-09-14

Call of Duty: Finest Hour:
    Developer: Spark Unlimited | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2004-11-16

Call of Duty 2:
    Developer: Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, X360, OSX | Release date: 2005-10-25

Call of Duty 2: Big Red One:
    Developer: Treyarch | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2005-11-01

Call of Duty 3:
    Developer: Treyarch | Platform(s): PS2, PS3, XBOX, X360, Wii | Release date: 2006-11-07

Call of Duty: Roads to Victory:
    Developer: Amaze Entertainment | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2007-03-13

Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare:
    Developer: Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, PS3, X360, DS, OSX, Wii | Release date: 2007-11-05

Call of Duty: World at War:
    Developer: Treyarch | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, DS, Wii | Release date: 2008-11-11

Call of Duty: World at War – Final Fronts:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2008-11-11

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2:
    Developer: Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2009-11-10

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare: Mobilized:
    Developer: n-Space | Platform(s): DS | Release date: 2009-11-10

Call of Duty: Black Ops:
    Developer: Treyarch | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, DS, Wii, OSX | Release date: 2010-11-09

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3:
    Developer: Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, Wii, OSX | Release date: 2011-11-08

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 – Defiance:
    Developer: n-Space | Platform(s): DS | Release date: 2011-11-08

Call of Duty: Black Ops II:
    Developer: Treyarch | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU | Release date: 2012-11-13

Call of Duty: Black Ops: Declassified:
    Developer: nStigate Games | Platform(s): PSV | Release date: 2012-11-13

Call of Duty: Ghosts:
    Developer: Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne, WiiU | Release date: 2013-11-05

Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare:
    Developer: Sledgehammer Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2014-11-04

Call of Duty: Black Ops III:
    Developer: Treyarch | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2015-11-06

Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare:
    Developer: Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-11-04

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-11-04

Call of Duty: WWII:
    Developer: Sledgehammer Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-11-03

Call of Duty: Black Ops 4:
    Developer: Treyarch | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-10-12

Call of Duty: Mobile:
    Developer: TiMi Studio Group | Platform(s): iOS, DROID | Release date: 2019-10-01

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare:
    Developer: Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-10-25

Call of Duty: Warzone:
    Developer: Raven Software , Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-03-10

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 Campaign Remastered:
    Developer: Beenox | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-03-31

Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War:
    Developer: Treyarch , Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-11-13

Call of Duty: Vanguard:
    Developer: Sledgehammer Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-11-05

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare II:
    Developer: Infinity Ward | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-10-28

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III:
    Developer: Sledgehammer Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-11-10

Call of Duty: Black Ops 6:
    Developer: Treyarch , Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-10-25

Call of Duty: Black Ops 7:
    Developer: Treyarch , Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-11-14

Call of Juarez:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, X360 | Release date: 2006-09-15

Call of Juarez: Bound in Blood:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-06-30

Call of Juarez: The Cartel:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-07-19

Call of Juarez: Gunslinger:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, PSN, XBLA, NX | Release date: 2013-05-22

Carnivores:
    Developer: Action Forms | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-11-30

Carnivores 2:
    Developer: Action Forms | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-10-31

Carnivores: Cityscape:
    Developer: Sunstorm Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-03-27

Chaser:
    Developer: Cauldron HQ | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-08-30

Chasm: The Rift:
    Developer: Action Forms | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-09-30

Castle Master:
    Developer: Teque Software Development | Platform(s): AMI, C64, ZX, IBM | Release date: 1990

Catacomb 3-D:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1991–11

Catacomb Abyss:
    Developer: Softdisk Publishing | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1992–05

Catacomb Armageddon:
    Developer: Softdisk Publishing | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1992–10

Catacomb Apocalypse:
    Developer: Softdisk Publishing | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1992–11

Catechumen:
    Developer: N'Lightning Software Development | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000-10-01

Chernobylite:
    Developer: The Farm 51 | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2021-07-28

Chex Quest:
    Developer: Digital Café | Platform(s): DOS, WIN | Release date: 1996

Chex Quest 2: Flemoids Take Chextropolis:
    Developer: Digital Café | Platform(s): DOS, WIN | Release date: 1997

Chex Quest 3:
    Developer: Digital Café | Platform(s): DOS, WIN | Release date: 2008-09-06

Chrome:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-10-28

Chrome SpecForce:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-06-02

The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay:
    Developer: Starbreeze Studios , Tigon Studios | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2004-06-01

The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena:
    Developer: Starbreeze Studios , Tigon Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2009-04-07

Clive Barker's Jericho:
    Developer: MercurySteam , Alchemic Productions | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-10-23

Clive Barker's Undying:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles | Platform(s): WIN, OSX | Release date: 2001-02-07

Close Combat: First to Fight:
    Developer: Destineer | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX, OSX, Wii | Release date: 2005-04-06

Codename Eagle:
    Developer: Refraction Games | Platform(s): WIN9X | Release date: 1999-11-15

Codename MAT II:
    Developer: Derek Brewster | Platform(s): CPC, C64, ZX | Release date: 1984

Codename: Outbreak:
    Developer: GSC Game World | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001-11-25

Cold Winter:
    Developer: Swordfish Studios | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2005-05-10

The Colony:
    Developer: David Alan Smith | Platform(s): MAC | Release date: 1988

Combat Arms: Reloaded:
    Developer: Nexon | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-07-11

Combat: Task Force 121:
    Developer: Direct Action Games | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-03-22

Command & Conquer: Renegade:
    Developer: Westwood Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-02-26

Commandos: Strike Force:
    Developer: Pyro Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2006-03-15

The Conduit:
    Developer: High Voltage Software | Platform(s): Wii, DROID | Release date: 2009-06-23

Conduit 2:
    Developer: High Voltage Software | Platform(s): Wii | Release date: 2011-04-19

Conflict: Denied Ops:
    Developer: Pivotal Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-02-08

Congo The Movie: The Lost City of Zinj:
    Developer: Jumpin Jack | Platform(s): SAT | Release date: 1996

Consortium:
    Developer: interdimensional games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2014-01-08

Consortium: The Tower:
    Developer: Interdimensional Games | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX, XOne, PS4 | Release date: 2017-09-22

Contract J.A.C.K.:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-11-11

Corporation:
    Developer: Core Design Ltd. Dementia | Platform(s): AMI, DOS, GEN, ATRST | Release date: 1990

Corridor 7: Alien Invasion:
    Developer: Capstone Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1994–03

Cosmic Conflict:
    Developer: Magnavox | Platform(s): ODY2 | Release date: 1978

Counter-Strike:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2000-11-09

Counter-Strike: Condition Zero:
    Developer: Ritual Entertainment , Turtle Rock Studios , Valve | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2004-03-23

Counter-Strike: Source:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2004-10-07

Counter-Strike: Global Offensive:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, PSN, XBLA, LIN | Release date: 2012-08-21

Counter-Strike 2:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, LIN | Release date: 2023-09-27

Crime Boss: Rockay City:
    Developer: Ingame Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-03-28

Crime Crackers:
    Developer: Media.Vision | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1994-12-03

Crossfire:
    Developer: Smilegate Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007-05-03

CrossfireX:
    Developer: Smilegate Entertainment , Remedy Entertainment | Platform(s): XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-02-10

Cruelty Squad:
    Developer: Consumer Softproducts | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2021-06-15

CTU: Marine Sharpshooter:
    Developer: Jarhead Games | Platform(s): WIN, iOS | Release date: 2003-03-20

Cryostasis: Sleep of Reason:
    Developer: Action Forms | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-12-05

Cryptic Passage for Blood:
    Developer: Sunstorm Interactive | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-06-30

Crysis:
    Developer: Crytek | Platform(s): WIN, PSN, XBLA, NX, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2007-11-13

Crysis Warhead:
    Developer: Crytek Budapest | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-09-16

Crysis 2:
    Developer: Crytek | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2011-03-22

Crysis 3:
    Developer: Crytek | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2013-02-19

Cube 2: Sauerbraten:
    Developer: Wouter van Oortmerssen, Lee Salzman, Mike Dysart | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, BSD (Free, Open), OSX, UNIX | Release date: 2004-05-06

Cyberdillo:
    Developer: Pixel Technologies | Platform(s): 3DO, DOS | Release date: 1996

CyberMage: Darklight Awakening:
    Developer: Origin Systems | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995-04-30

Cyberpunk 2077:
    Developer: CD Projekt RED | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S, NX2 | Release date: 2020-12-10

Cyberpunk 2077: Phantom Liberty:
    Developer: CD Projekt RED | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S, NX2 | Release date: 2023-09-26

CyClones:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1994

Daikatana:
    Developer: Ion Storm | Platform(s): WIN, N64 | Release date: 2000-05-24

Damage Incorporated:
    Developer: Paranoid Productions | Platform(s): MAC, WIN9X | Release date: 1997

Dark Arena:
    Developer: Graphic State | Platform(s): GBA | Release date: 2002-01-18

Dark Side:
    Developer: Incentive Software | Platform(s): AMI, ATRST, CPC, C64, DOS, ZX | Release date: 1988

Darkest of Days:
    Developer: 8Monkey Labs | Platform(s): WIN, X360, OSX | Release date: 2009-09-08

The Darkness:
    Developer: Starbreeze Studios | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-06-25

The Darkness II:
    Developer: Digital Extremes | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2012-02-07

Darkwatch:
    Developer: High Moon Studios | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-08-16

Day of Defeat:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2003-05-01

Day of Defeat: Source:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2005-09-26

Day of the Viper:
    Developer: Accolade | Platform(s): AMI, ATRST, DOS | Release date: 1989

Dead Effect:
    Developer: InDev Brain | Platform(s): iOS, DROID, WIN, OSX | Release date: 2013-09-12

Dead Effect 2:
    Developer: BadFly Interactive | Platform(s): iOS, DROID, WIN, OSX, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2015-10-28

Dead Island:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2011-09-06

Dead Island: Riptide:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne, LIN | Release date: 2013-04-23

Dead Island 2:
    Developer: Dambuster Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-04-21

Dead Man's Hand:
    Developer: Human Head Studios | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2004-03-02

Dead Space: Extraction:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores , Eurocom | Platform(s): Wii, PS3 | Release date: 2009-09-24

Deadfall Adventures:
    Developer: The Farm 51 | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PSN | Release date: 2013-11-15

Deadly Dozen:
    Developer: nFusion Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001-11-02

Deadly Dozen: Pacific Theater:
    Developer: nFusion Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-11-11

Deathloop:
    Developer: Arkane Lyon | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-09-14

Deep Rock Galactic:
    Developer: Ghost Ship Games | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, PS4, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2018-02-28

Defcon 5:
    Developer: Millennium Interactive | Platform(s): 3DO, PS1, SAT | Release date: 1995–11

Delta Force:
    Developer: NovaLogic | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-11-01

Delta Force 2:
    Developer: NovaLogic | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-11-03

Delta Force: Land Warrior:
    Developer: NovaLogic | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000-12-01

Delta Force: Task Force Dagger:
    Developer: Zombie Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-06-27

Delta Force: Urban Warfare:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): PS1, PSN | Release date: 2002-07-02

Delta Force: Black Hawk Down:
    Developer: NovaLogic | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-03-24

Delta Force: Xtreme:
    Developer: NovaLogic | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-05-19

Delta Force: Xtreme 2:
    Developer: NovaLogic | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-09-03

Dementium: The Ward:
    Developer: Renegade Kid | Platform(s): DS | Release date: 2007-10-31

Dementium II:
    Developer: Renegade Kid | Platform(s): DS | Release date: 2010-05-04

Depth Dwellers:
    Developer: TriSoft | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1994

Descent:
    Developer: Parallax Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995-03-17

Descent II:
    Developer: Parallax Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1996-03-13

Descent III:
    Developer: Parallax Software | Platform(s): WIN, MAC, LIN | Release date: 1999-03-13

Despair 3:
    Developer: U-Neek Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995

Destiny:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2014-09-14

Destiny 2:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2017-09-06

Deus:
    Developer: Silmarils | Platform(s): DOS, WIN | Release date: 1996-12-31

Deus Ex:
    Developer: Ion Storm | Platform(s): WIN, MAC, PS2, PS4, PS5 | Release date: 2000-06-17

Deus Ex: Invisible War:
    Developer: Ion Storm | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2003-12-02

Deus Ex: Human Revolution:
    Developer: Eidos Montréal | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, WiiU | Release date: 2011-08-23

Deus Ex: Mankind Divided:
    Developer: Eidos Montréal | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, LIN, OSX | Release date: 2016-08-23

Devastation:
    Developer: Digitalo Studios | Platform(s): WIN, LIN | Release date: 2003-03-25

Devil Daggers:
    Developer: Sorath | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX | Release date: 2016-02-18

Die Hard: Nakatomi Plaza:
    Developer: Piranha Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-04-23

Dishonored:
    Developer: Arkane Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2012-10-09

Dishonored 2:
    Developer: Arkane Lyon | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-11-11

Dishonored: Death of the Outsider:
    Developer: Arkane Lyon | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-09-15

Disruptor:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1996-11-20

Doom:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): Official versions of Doom | Release date: 1993-12-10

Doom II:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): DOS, WIN, MAC, PC98, PS1, SAT, GBA, TZ, X360, PS3, PS4, XOne, NX, iOS, DROID, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 1994-09-30

The Ultimate Doom:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): DOS, MAC, PS1, SAT | Release date: 1995-04-30

Master Levels for Doom II:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): DOS, PS1 | Release date: 1995-12-26

Final Doom:
    Developer: id Software TeamTNT Casali brothers | Platform(s): DOS, WIN, MAC, PS1, PSN | Release date: 1996-06-17

Doom 64:
    Developer: Midway Studios San Diego | Platform(s): N64, WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 1997-03-31

Doom 3:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX, XBOX | Release date: 2004-08-03

Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil:
    Developer: Nerve Software | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-04-04

Doom 3: BFG Edition:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, DROID, PS4, XOne, NX, PSVR | Release date: 2012-10-16

Doom Eternal:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-03-20

Doom: The Dark Ages:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-05-15

Dreamkiller:
    Developer: Mindware Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-10-12

Driller:
    Developer: Major Developments | Platform(s): AMI, ATRST, CPC, C64, DOS, ZX | Release date: 1987

Duke Nukem 3D:
    Developer: 3D Realms | Platform(s): DOS, GCOM, MAC, SAT, N64, PS1, GEN, WIN, XBLA, iOS, DROID, OSX, LIN, PSN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 1996-01-29

Duke Nukem 3D: Atomic Edition:
    Developer: 3D Realms | Platform(s): DOS, MAC | Release date: 1996–11

Duke Caribbean: Life's a Beach:
    Developer: Sunstorm Interactive | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1998–01

Duke It Out In D.C.:
    Developer: Sunstorm Interactive | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-03-31

Duke: Nuclear Winter:
    Developer: Simply Silly Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-12-30

Duke Nukem Advance:
    Developer: Torus Games | Platform(s): GBA | Release date: 2002-08-12

Duke Nukem Forever:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2011-06-10

Dusk:
    Developer: David Szymanski, New Blood Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX, NX, PS4 | Release date: 2018-12-10

Dying Light:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, PS4, XOne, OSX, NX | Release date: 2015-01-27

Dying Light: The Following:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, PS4, XOne, OSX, NX | Release date: 2016-02-09

Dying Light 2:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-02-04

Dying Light: The Beast:
    Developer: Techland | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-09-18

E.Y.E.: Divine Cybermancy:
    Developer: Streum On Studio | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-07-29

Earthfall:
    Developer: Holospark | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2018-07-13

Ecks vs. Sever:
    Developer: Crawfish Interactive | Platform(s): GBA | Release date: 2001-11-21

Eldritch:
    Developer: Minor Key Games | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX | Release date: 2013-10-21

Enemy Front:
    Developer: CI Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2014-06-10

Epidemic:
    Developer: Genki Co. | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1995-12-29

Eradicator:
    Developer: Accolade | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1996-09-30

Escape from Monster Manor:
    Developer: The 3DO Company | Platform(s): 3DO | Release date: 1993-10-25

Escape from Tarkov:
    Developer: Battlestate Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2017-07-27

Excalibur: Morgana's Revenge:
    Developer: ExcaliburWorld Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-10-20

Expert:
    Developer: Nichibutsu | Platform(s): PS1 [ 1 ] [ 2 ] | Release date: 1996-5-31

Extreme Paintbrawl:
    Developer: Head Games Publishing | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1998-6-31

F.E.A.R.:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS3 | Release date: 2005-10-18

F.E.A.R. Extraction Point:
    Developer: Timegate Studios | Platform(s): WIN, X360 | Release date: 2006-10-24

F.E.A.R. Perseus Mandate:
    Developer: Timegate Studios | Platform(s): WIN, X360 | Release date: 2007-11-06

F.E.A.R. 2: Project Origin:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-02-10

F.E.A.R. 3:
    Developer: Day 1 Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-06-21

Fallout 3:
    Developer: Bethesda Game Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-10-28

Fallout: New Vegas:
    Developer: Obsidian Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-10-19

Fallout 4:
    Developer: Bethesda Game Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2015-11-10

Fallout 76:
    Developer: Bethesda Game Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-11-04

Far Cry:
    Developer: Crytek | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2004-03-23

Far Cry: Instincts:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): XBOX | Release date: 2005-09-27

Far Cry Instincts: Evolution:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): XBOX | Release date: 2006-03-28

Far Cry Instincts: Predator:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): X360 | Release date: 2006-03-28

Far Cry: Vengeance:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): Wii | Release date: 2006-12-12

Far Cry 2:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-10-21

Far Cry 3:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2012-11-29

Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2013-05-01

Far Cry 4:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2014-11-18

Far Cry Primal:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-02-23

Far Cry 5:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal , Ubisoft Toronto | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-03-27

Far Cry New Dawn:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-02-15

Far Cry 6:
    Developer: Ubisoft Toronto | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-10-07

The Finals:
    Developer: Embark Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S, PS4 | Release date: 2023-12-07

Flying Heroes:
    Developer: Pterodon Illusion Softworks | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000-04-30

Forbes Corporate Warrior:
    Developer: Byron Preiss Multimedia Company | Platform(s): WIN9X | Release date: 1997-08-15

The Fortress of Dr. Radiaki:
    Developer: Future Visionary, Inc. Maelstrom Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1994-12-30

Forsaken:
    Developer: Probe Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS1, N64, OSX, LIN, XOne | Release date: 1998-04-24

Frontlines: Fuel of War:
    Developer: Kaos Studios | Platform(s): WIN, X360 | Release date: 2008-02-25

Geist:
    Developer: n-Space | Platform(s): GCN | Release date: 2005-08-15

Generation Zero:
    Developer: Systemic Reaction | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-03-26

Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex:
    Developer: G-Artists | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2005-09-15

Global Operations:
    Developer: Barking Dog Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-03-26

Gloom:
    Developer: Black Magic Software | Platform(s): AMI, AMI32 | Release date: 1995

Gloom 3:
    Developer: Black Magic Software | Platform(s): AMI, AMI32 | Release date: 1997

Gods and Generals:
    Developer: AniVision | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-02-18

Golgo 13: Top Secret Episode:
    Developer: Vic Tokai | Platform(s): NES | Release date: 1988-03-26

Gore: Ultimate Soldier:
    Developer: 4D Rulers | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-06-05

GTFO:
    Developer: 10 Chambers Collective | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2021-12-10

Gun Buster:
    Developer: Taito | Platform(s): Arcade | Release date: 1992–08

Gungriffon Blaze:
    Developer: Game Arts , Capcom | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2000-08-10

Gunman Chronicles:
    Developer: Rewolf Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000-11-20

Gunmetal:
    Developer: Mad Genius Software | Platform(s): DOS, WIN | Release date: 1998-08-31

H.U.R.L.:
    Developer: Millennium Media Group | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995

Hacx: Twitch 'n Kill:
    Developer: Banjo Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997–09

Half-Life:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, OSX, LIN | Release date: 1998-11-19

Half-Life: Opposing Force:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 1999-11-19

Half-Life: Blue Shift:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2001-06-12

Half-Life: Decay:
    Developer: Gearbox Software | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2001-11-14

Half-Life 2:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN, DROID | Release date: 2004-11-16

Half-Life 2: Episode One:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN, DROID | Release date: 2006-06-01

Half-Life 2: Episode Two:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN, DROID | Release date: 2007-10-10

Half-Life: Alyx:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, LIN | Release date: 2020-03-23

Halo: Combat Evolved:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN, OSX, X360 | Release date: 2001-11-15

Halo 2:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN | Release date: 2004-11-09

Halo 3:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): X360, XOne, WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2007-09-25

Halo 3: ODST:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): X360, XOne, WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2009-09-22

Halo: Reach:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): X360, XOne, WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2010-09-14

Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary:
    Developer: 343 Industries | Platform(s): X360, XOne, WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2011-11-15

Halo 4:
    Developer: 343 Industries | Platform(s): X360, XOne, WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2012-11-06

Halo 5: Guardians:
    Developer: 343 Industries | Platform(s): XOne | Release date: 2015-10-27

Halo: 2 Anniversary:
    Developer: 343 Industries | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-05-13

Halo Infinite:
    Developer: 343 Industries | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-12-08

Hard Reset:
    Developer: Flying Wild Hog | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2011-09-13

Haze:
    Developer: Free Radical Design | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2008-05-20

Heat Project:
    Developer: DOOBIC Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-05-14

Heavy Bullets:
    Developer: Terri Vellmann | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2014-09-18

Hell Let Loose:
    Developer: Expression Games, Cover 6 Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-07-27

Hellgate: London:
    Developer: Flagship Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007-10-31

Heretic:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): DOS, MAC, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 1994-12-23

Heretic: Shadow of the Serpent Riders:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): DOS, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 1996-03-31

Hexen: Beyond Heretic:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): DOS, MAC, N64, PS1, SAT, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 1995-10-30

Hexen: Deathkings of the Dark Citadel:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): DOS, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 1996-01-01

Hexen II:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, MAC | Release date: 1997-08-31

Hexen II Mission Pack: Portal of Praevus:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-03-31

Hidden & Dangerous:
    Developer: Illusion Softworks | Platform(s): WIN, DC, PS1 | Release date: 1999-07-29

Hidden & Dangerous 2:
    Developer: Illusion Softworks | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-10-24

High on Life:
    Developer: Squanch Games | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, XSX/S, PS4, PS5, NX | Release date: 2022-12-13

The History Channel: Civil War – A Nation Divided:
    Developer: Cauldron HQ | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, X360 | Release date: 2006-11-07

The History Channel: Battle for the Pacific:
    Developer: Cauldron HQ | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, PS3, X360, Wii | Release date: 2007-12-04

History Civil War: Secret Missions:
    Developer: Cauldron HQ | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-11-04

Homefront:
    Developer: Kaos Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-03-15

Homefront: The Revolution:
    Developer: Dambuster Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-05-17

Horizon V:
    Developer: Gebelli Software | Platform(s): APPII | Release date: 1982

Hour of Victory:
    Developer: nFusion Interactive | Platform(s): X360, WIN | Release date: 2007-06-25

Hovertank 3D:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1991–04

Hrot:
    Developer: Spytihněv | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2021-01-29

Hunt: Showdown:
    Developer: Crytek | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, PS4, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2018-02-22

Hyper Demon:
    Developer: Sorath | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2022-09-20

Ice Nine:
    Developer: Torus Games | Platform(s): GBA | Release date: 2005

In Pursuit of Greed:
    Developer: Mind Shear Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995

Insurgency:
    Developer: New World Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2014-01-22

Insurgency: Sandstorm:
    Developer: New World Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2018-12-12

Interphase:
    Developer: The Assembly Line | Platform(s): AMI, DOS, ATRST | Release date: 1989

Ion Fury:
    Developer: Voidpoint, General Arcade | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-08-15 [ 3 ]

Iron Angel of the Apocalypse:
    Developer: Synergy Inc. | Platform(s): 3DO | Release date: 1994-06-09

Iron Angel of the Apocalypse: The Return:
    Developer: Synergy Inc. | Platform(s): 3DO | Release date: 1995-09-22

Iron Grip: Warlord:
    Developer: ISOTX | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-11-05

Iron Storm:
    Developer: 4X Studio | Platform(s): WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2002-10-28

Island Peril:
    Developer: electric fantasies | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995–04

Isle of the Dead:
    Developer: Rainmaker Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1993–12

Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising:
    Developer: NovaLogic | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2004-06-15

Joint Operations: Escalation:
    Developer: NovaLogic | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2004-11-17

Journey to the Savage Planet:
    Developer: Typhoon Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2020-01-28

Judge Dredd: Dredd Vs. Death:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-10-17

Jumping Flash!:
    Developer: Exact | Platform(s): PS1, PSN | Release date: 1995-04-27

Jumping Flash! 2:
    Developer: Exact | Platform(s): PS1, PSN | Release date: 1996-04-26

Jurassic: The Hunted:
    Developer: Cauldron HQ | Platform(s): PS2, PS3, X360, Wii | Release date: 2009-11-03

Jurassic Park: Trespasser:
    Developer: DreamWorks Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-10-28

Ken's Labyrinth:
    Developer: Ken Silverman | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1993–03

Kidō Senshi Z-Gundam: Hot Scramble:
    Developer: Bandai | Platform(s): NES | Release date: 1986

Kileak: The DNA Imperative:
    Developer: Genki | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1995-09-09

Killing Floor:
    Developer: Tripwire Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2009-05-14

Killing Floor 2:
    Developer: Tripwire Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-11-18

Killing Floor 3:
    Developer: Tripwire Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-07-24

Killing Time:
    Developer: Studio 3DO | Platform(s): 3DO, MAC, WIN | Release date: 1995-08-15

Killzone:
    Developer: Guerrilla Games | Platform(s): PS2, PS3 | Release date: 2004-11-02

Killzone 2:
    Developer: Guerrilla Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2009-02-26

Killzone 3:
    Developer: Guerrilla Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2011-02-22

Killzone: Mercenary:
    Developer: Guerrilla Cambridge | Platform(s): PSV | Release date: 2013-09-04

Killzone: Shadow Fall:
    Developer: Guerrilla Games | Platform(s): PS4 | Release date: 2013-11-15

Kingpin: Life of Crime:
    Developer: Xatrix Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, LIN | Release date: 1999-06-30

Kiss: Psycho Circus: The Nightmare Child:
    Developer: Third Law Interactive | Platform(s): DC, WIN | Release date: 2000-07-18

Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddler's Green:
    Developer: Brainbox Games | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-10-20

Laser Arena:
    Developer: Trainwreck Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000–09

Left 4 Dead:
    Developer: Valve South | Platform(s): WIN, X360, OSX | Release date: 2008-11-17

Left 4 Dead 2:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, X360, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2009-11-17

Legend of the Seven Paladins:
    Developer: Accend Inc | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1994

Legendary:
    Developer: Spark Unlimited | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-11-04

Legends of Might and Magic:
    Developer: New World Computing | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001-06-30

Lethal Tender:
    Developer: Pie in the Sky Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1993–08

Lichdom: Battlemage:
    Developer: Xaviant | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2014-08-26

Lifeforce Tenka:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Platform(s): PS1, WIN | Release date: 1997-05-31

Line of Sight: Vietnam:
    Developer: nFusion Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-03-05

Lunicus:
    Developer: Cyberflix Incorporated | Platform(s): MAC, WIN3X | Release date: 1994–04

Mace Griffin: Bounty Hunter:
    Developer: Warthog Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-06-19

MAG:
    Developer: Zipper Interactive | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2010-01-26

Magic Carpet:
    Developer: Bullfrog Productions , Electronic Arts | Platform(s): DOS, PS1, SAT | Release date: 1994

Malice:
    Developer: Ratloop | Platform(s): DOS, LIN, MAC, WIN | Release date: 1997-10-15

Marathon:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): MAC, Pippin , iOS, WIN, OSX | Release date: 1994-12-21

Marathon 2: Durandal:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): MAC, Pippin, WIN, XBLA, iOS, OSX | Release date: 1995-11-24

Marathon Infinity:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): MAC, iOS, WIN, OSX | Release date: 1996-10-15

Maze War:
    Developer: Steve Colley | Platform(s): PDS1, MAC, NeXT, PALM, STAR | Release date: 1974

Maximum Action:
    Developer: George Mandell | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2018-09-29

Medal of Honor:
    Developer: DreamWorks Interactive | Platform(s): PS1, PSN | Release date: 1999-11-11

Medal of Honor: Underground:
    Developer: DreamWorks Interactive , Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): PS1, GBA, PSN | Release date: 2000-10-23

Medal of Honor: Allied Assault:
    Developer: 2015, Inc. | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2002-01-22

Medal of Honor: Frontline:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN, PS3 | Release date: 2002-05-29

Medal of Honor: Allied Assault: Spearhead:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2002-11-12

Medal of Honor: Allied Assault: Breakthrough:
    Developer: TKO Software | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2003-09-22

Medal of Honor: Rising Sun:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-11-11

Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2004-11-04

Medal of Honor: European Assault:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2005-06-07

Medal of Honor: Heroes:
    Developer: Team Fusion | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2006-10-23

Medal of Honor: Vanguard:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles , Budcat Creations | Platform(s): PS2, Wii | Release date: 2007-03-26

Medal of Honor: Airborne:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-09-04

Medal of Honor: Heroes 2:
    Developer: EA Los Angeles , EA Canada | Platform(s): Wii, PSP | Release date: 2007-11-13

Medal of Honor: Warfighter:
    Developer: Danger Close Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-10-23

Medal of Honor: Above and Beyond:
    Developer: Respawn Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2020-12-11

Men in Black: The Series – Crashdown:
    Developer: Runecraft | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 2001-11-20

Men of Valor:
    Developer: 2015, Inc. | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2004-10-19

Metal Head:
    Developer: Sega | Platform(s): S32X | Release date: 1995-02-24

Metal: Hellsinger:
    Developer: The Outsiders | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2022-09-15

Metro 2033:
    Developer: 4A Games | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS4, XOne, LIN, OSX, NX | Release date: 2010-03-16

Metro: Last Light:
    Developer: 4A Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2013-05-14

Metro Exodus:
    Developer: 4A Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, OSX, LIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2019-02-15

Metroid Prime:
    Developer: Retro Studios | Platform(s): GCN, Wii, WiiU | Release date: 2002-11-17

Metroid Prime 2: Echoes:
    Developer: Retro Studios | Platform(s): GCN, Wii, WiiU | Release date: 2004-11-15

Metroid Prime Hunters:
    Developer: Nintendo Software Technology | Platform(s): DS | Release date: 2006-03-20

Metroid Prime 3: Corruption:
    Developer: Retro Studios | Platform(s): Wii, WiiU | Release date: 2007-08-27

Metroid Prime: Federation Force:
    Developer: Next Level Games | Platform(s): 3DS | Release date: 2016-08-19

Metroid Prime Remastered:
    Developer: Retro Studios | Platform(s): NX | Release date: 2023-02-09

Midair:
    Developer: Archetype Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2018-05-03

MIDI Maze:
    Developer: Xanth Software F/X | Platform(s): ATRST, ATR, GB, GG, SNES | Release date: 1987

Midwinter:
    Developer: Maelstrom Games | Platform(s): AMI, DOS, ATRST | Release date: 1989

Midwinter II: Flames of Freedom:
    Developer: Maelstrom Games | Platform(s): AMI, DOS, ATRST | Release date: 1991

Mission Against Terror:
    Developer: Kingsoft Dalian JingCai Studio | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2010-09-19

Mob Enforcer:
    Developer: Touchdown Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2004-07-13

Mobile Forces:
    Developer: Rage Games Realtime Worlds | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-05-31

Mortal Coil: Adrenalin Intelligence:
    Developer: Crush Ltd. | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995

Mortyr:
    Developer: Mirage Media | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-08-30

Mothergunship:
    Developer: Grip Digital , Terrible Posture Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-07-17

NAM:
    Developer: TNT Team | Platform(s): DOS, WIN | Release date: 1998-07-31

Natural Selection:
    Developer: Unknown Worlds Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-10-31

Necrodome:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1996-10-30

Necromunda: Hired Gun:
    Developer: Streum On Studio | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-06-01

NecroVisioN:
    Developer: The Farm 51 | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-02-20

NecroVisioN: Lost Company:
    Developer: The Farm 51 | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2010-02-19

Nerf Arena Blast:
    Developer: Visionary Media | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-10-31

Neon White:
    Developer: Angel Matrix | Platform(s): WIN, NX, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-06-16

Neuro:
    Developer: Revolt Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-03-10

Neuro Hunter:
    Developer: Media Art | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-08-19

New World Order:
    Developer: Termite Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-12-05

Nexuiz:
    Developer: Alientrap | Platform(s): LIN, BSD (Free), WIN, OSX, AmiOS | Release date: 2005-05-31

Nitemare 3D:
    Developer: Gray Design Associates | Platform(s): DOS, WIN | Release date: 1994-05-17

No Man's Sky:
    Developer: Hello Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S, NX, OSX, NX2 | Release date: 2016-08-09

Nosferatu: The Wrath of Malachi:
    Developer: Idol FX | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-10-21

NRA Gun Club:
    Developer: Crave Entertainment | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2006-10-02

Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath:
    Developer: Oddworld Inhabitants | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN, PS3, PSV, iOS, DROID, OSX, NX, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2005-01-25

Ominous Horizons: A Paladin's Calling:
    Developer: N'Lightning Software Development | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001-09-01

Onslaught:
    Developer: Shade | Platform(s): Wii | Release date: 2009-02-13

Operation: Blockade:
    Developer: Screaming Games | Platform(s): Arcade, WIN | Release date: 2002-05-13

Operation Body Count:
    Developer: Capstone Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1994–03

Operation Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis:
    Developer: Bohemia Interactive Studio | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2001-06-22

Operation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising:
    Developer: Codemasters | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-10-06

Operation Flashpoint: Red River:
    Developer: Codemasters | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-04-21

Operation: Matriarchy:
    Developer: MADia Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-08-25

The Operative: No One Lives Forever:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, OSX | Release date: 2000-11-09

No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy in H.A.R.M.'s Way:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN, OSX | Release date: 2002-09-30

Orion: Prelude:
    Developer: Spiral Game Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2012-05-04

Outcast:
    Developer: Appeal | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-06-25

The Outer Worlds:
    Developer: Obsidian Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2019-10-25

Outlaws:
    Developer: LucasArts | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1997-03-31

Outtrigger:
    Developer: Sega-AM2 | Platform(s): Arcade, DC | Release date: 1999-07-24

Overkill's The Walking Dead:
    Developer: Overkill Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2018-11-06

Overwatch:
    Developer: Blizzard Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2016-05-24

Overwatch 2:
    Developer: Blizzard Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2022-10-04

Painkiller:
    Developer: People Can Fly | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2004-04-12

Painkiller: Battle out of Hell:
    Developer: People Can Fly | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2004-11-22

Painkiller: Overdose:
    Developer: Mindware Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007-10-30

Painkiller: Resurrection:
    Developer: HomeGrown Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-10-27

Painkiller: Redemption:
    Developer: Eggtooth, Homegrown Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-02-25

Painkiller: Recurring Evil:
    Developer: Med-Art, Eggtooth | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2012-02-29

Painkiller: Hell & Damnation:
    Developer: The Farm 51 | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, LIN, OSX | Release date: 2012-10-31

Paladins: Champions of the Realm:
    Developer: Evil Mojo Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2016-09-16

Pariah:
    Developer: Digital Extremes | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-05-03

Parkan: The Imperial Chronicles:
    Developer: Nikita | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1997–09

Parkan: Iron Strategy:
    Developer: Nikita | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001-11-29

Parkan II:
    Developer: Nikita | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2004

Pathways into Darkness:
    Developer: Bungie | Platform(s): MAC | Release date: 1993–08

Patriots: A Nation Under Fire:
    Developer: 4D Rulers | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007-01-23

Payday: The Heist:
    Developer: Overkill Software | Platform(s): WIN, PSN | Release date: 2011-10-18

Payday 2:
    Developer: Overkill Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne, LIN, NX | Release date: 2013-08-13

Payday 3:
    Developer: Starbreeze Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-09-21

Pencil Whipped:
    Developer: ChiselBrain | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001

Perfect Dark:
    Developer: Rare | Platform(s): N64 | Release date: 2000-05-22

Perfect Dark Zero:
    Developer: Rare | Platform(s): X360, XOne | Release date: 2005-11-22

Peter Jackson's King Kong: The Official Game of the Movie:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montpellier | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, X360, GCN, DS, PSP | Release date: 2005-11-17

Phantom Fury:
    Developer: Voidpoint, 3D Realms | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2024

Phantom Slayer:
    Developer: Med Systems | Platform(s): TRS80, DRA | Release date: 1982

PlanetSide:
    Developer: Sony Online Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-05-20

PlanetSide 2:
    Developer: Toadman Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS4 | Release date: 2012-11-20

PlanetSide Arena:
    Developer: Daybreak Game Company | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2019-09-19

PO'ed:
    Developer: Any Channel | Platform(s): 3DO, PS1 | Release date: 1995-11-06

Point Blank:
    Developer: Zepetto | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008–03

Portal:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN, DROID, NX | Release date: 2007-10-10

Portal 2:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, PS3, X360, LIN, NX | Release date: 2011-04-18

Postal 2:
    Developer: Running with Scissors | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2003-04-13

Postal 4: No Regerts:
    Developer: Running with Scissors | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5 | Release date: 2019-10-14

PowerSlave:
    Developer: Lobotomy Software | Platform(s): DOS, PS1, SAT | Release date: 1996-09-26

The Precursors:
    Developer: Deep Shadows | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-12-04

Prey:
    Developer: Human Head Studios | Platform(s): WIN, X360, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2006-07-11

Prey Invasion:
    Developer: Machine Works NorthWest, 3D Realms | Platform(s): iOS | Release date: 2009-06-04

Prime Target:
    Developer: WizardWorks | Platform(s): MAC | Release date: 1996

Prodeus:
    Developer: Bounding Box Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2020-11-09

Project I.G.I.:
    Developer: Innerloop Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000-12-15

I.G.I.-2: Covert Strike:
    Developer: Innerloop Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-03-03

Project Snowblind:
    Developer: Crystal Dynamics | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-02-22

Project Warlock:
    Developer: Buckshot Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, NX, XOne | Release date: 2018-10-18

Psychotoxic:
    Developer: NuClearVision Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2004-09-03

Pulsar: Lost Colony:
    Developer: Leafy Games LLC | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2021-06-23

Quake:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): DOS, WIN, LIN, MAC, SAT, N64, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 1996-06-22

Quake Mission Pack No. 1: Scourge of Armagon:
    Developer: Hipnotic Interactive | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-02-28

Quake Mission Pack No. 2: Dissolution of Eternity:
    Developer: Rogue Entertainment | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-03-31

Quake II:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, MAC, N64, PS1, X360, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 1997-12-09

Quake II Mission Pack: Ground Zero:
    Developer: Rogue Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-08-31

Quake II Mission Pack: The Reckoning:
    Developer: Xatrix Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-05-31

Juggernaut: The New Story:
    Developer: Canopy Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998

Zaero:
    Developer: Team Evolve | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998

Quake III Arena:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, MAC, DC, PS2, XBLA | Release date: 1999-12-02

Quake III: Team Arena:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000-12-18

Quake 4:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, X360, OSX | Release date: 2005-10-18

Enemy Territory: Quake Wars:
    Developer: Splash Damage | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-09-28

Quake Live:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX | Release date: 2010-08-06

Quake Champions:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2017-08-22

Quest for Bush:
    Developer: al-Qaeda | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-09-11

Quest for Saddam:
    Developer: Petrilla Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-05-14

Quest of Persia: The End of Innocence:
    Developer: Puya Arts | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-09-25

Quiver:
    Developer: ADvertainment Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997–03

Radix: Beyond the Void:
    Developer: Neutral Storm Entertainment | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995-11-02

Rage: Mutant Bash TV:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): iOS | Release date: 2010-11-18

Rage:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2011-10-04

Rage 2:
    Developer: Avalanche Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-05-14

Raven Squad: Operation Hidden Dagger:
    Developer: Atomic Motion | Platform(s): WIN, X360 | Release date: 2009-08-25

Ready or Not:
    Developer: VOID Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-12-17

Realms of the Haunting:
    Developer: Gremlin Interactive | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1996-12

Rebel Moon:
    Developer: Fenris Wolf Ltd. | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1995–12

Rebel Moon Rising:
    Developer: Fenris Wolf Ltd. | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1997

Rec Room:
    Developer: Against Gravity | Platform(s): WIN, PS4 | Release date: 2016-06-28

Red Babe:
    Developer: The DaRK CaVErN Productions | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1994

Red Faction:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, OSX, NGE, PS3, PS4 | Release date: 2001-05-22

Red Faction II:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX, GCN, PS3, PS4 | Release date: 2002-10-15

Red Ocean:
    Developer: Collision Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007-03-30

Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45:
    Developer: Tripwire Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-03-14

Red Orchestra 2: Heroes of Stalingrad:
    Developer: Tripwire Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-09-13

Red Steel:
    Developer: Ubisoft Paris | Platform(s): Wii | Release date: 2006-11-19

Red Steel 2:
    Developer: Ubisoft Paris | Platform(s): Wii | Release date: 2010-03-23

Redfall:
    Developer: Arkane Austin | Platform(s): WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-05-02

Redline:
    Developer: Beyond Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-03-24

Redneck Rampage:
    Developer: Xatrix Entertainment | Platform(s): DOS, MAC | Release date: 1997-04-30

Redneck Rampage: Suckin' Grits on Route 66:
    Developer: Xatrix Entertainment | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1997-12-19

Redneck Rampage Rides Again:
    Developer: Xatrix Entertainment | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1998-05-31

The Regiment:
    Developer: Kuju London | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-02-17

Renegade X:
    Developer: Totem Arts | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2014-02-26

Requiem: Avenging Angel:
    Developer: Cyclone Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-03-31

Rescue on Fractalus!:
    Developer: LucasArts | Platform(s): ATR | Release date: 1985

Resident Evil Survivor:
    Developer: Tose | Platform(s): PS1, WIN | Release date: 2000-01-27

Resident Evil Survivor 2 Code: Veronica:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): Arcade, PS2 | Release date: 2001-11-08

Resident Evil: Dead Aim:
    Developer: Cavia | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2003-02-13

Resident Evil: The Umbrella Chronicles:
    Developer: Capcom , Cavia | Platform(s): Wii, PS3 | Release date: 2007-11-13

Resident Evil: The Darkside Chronicles:
    Developer: Capcom , Cavia | Platform(s): Wii, PS3 | Release date: 2009-11-17

Resident Evil 7: Biohazard:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S, OSX, iOS | Release date: 2017-01-24

Resident Evil Village:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, OSX, NX, PSVR, iOS | Release date: 2021-05-07

Resistance: Fall of Man:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2006-11-11

Resistance 2:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2008-11-04

Resistance 3:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2011-09-06

Resistance: Burning Skies:
    Developer: Nihilistic Software | Platform(s): PSV | Release date: 2012-05-29

Rise of the Triad:
    Developer: Apogee Software | Platform(s): DOS, iOS, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 1994-12-21

Rising Storm:
    Developer: Tripwire Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2013-05-30

Rising Storm 2: Vietnam:
    Developer: Antimatter Games , Tripwire Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2017-05-30

RoboCop 3:
    Developer: Digital Image Design | Platform(s): AMI, ATRST, DOS | Release date: 1991

RoboCop:
    Developer: Titus Interactive Studio | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-04-30

RoboCop: Rogue City:
    Developer: Teyon | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S, OSX | Release date: 2023-11-02

Robotica:
    Developer: Micronet | Platform(s): SAT | Release date: 1995-03-24

Rogue Warrior:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-11-26

Rust:
    Developer: Facepunch Studios Ltd , Double Eleven | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2013-12-11

S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl:
    Developer: GSC Game World | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2007-03-20

S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Clear Sky:
    Developer: GSC Game World | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2008-08-22

S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Call of Pripyat:
    Developer: GSC Game World | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2009-10-02

S.T.A.L.K.E.R. 2: Heart of Chornobyl:
    Developer: GSC Game World | Platform(s): WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-11-20

Sanctum:
    Developer: Coffee Stain Studios | Platform(s): WIN, OSX | Release date: 2011-04-15

Sanctum 2:
    Developer: Coffee Stain Studios , Reverb Publishing | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN, X360, PS3 | Release date: 2013-05-15

SAS: Secure Tomorrow:
    Developer: City Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-09-30

Saucer Attack:
    Developer: Lotus Soft | Platform(s): C64 | Release date: 1984

Savage: The Battle for Newerth:
    Developer: S2 Games | Platform(s): LIN, OSX, WIN | Release date: 2003-09-09

Savage 2: A Tortured Soul:
    Developer: S2 Games | Platform(s): LIN, OSX, WIN | Release date: 2008-01-16

Scarab of Ra:
    Developer: Semicolon Software | Platform(s): MAC | Release date: 1987-01-01

Scorn:
    Developer: Ebb Software | Platform(s): WIN, XSX/S, PS5 | Release date: 2022-10-14

Scorpion: Disfigured:
    Developer: B-Cool Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-03-31

Secret Service:
    Developer: Fun Labs | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001-11-23

Secret Service 2: Security Breach:
    Developer: 4D Rulers | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-10-28

Section 8:
    Developer: TimeGate Studios | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS3 | Release date: 2009-09-04

Section 8: Prejudice:
    Developer: TimeGate Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PSN, XBLA | Release date: 2011-04-11

Sensory Overload:
    Developer: Reality Bytes | Platform(s): MAC | Release date: 1994-08

Serious Sam: The First Encounter:
    Developer: Croteam | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2001-03-21

Serious Sam: The Second Encounter:
    Developer: Croteam | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2002-02-02

Serious Sam: Next Encounter:
    Developer: Climax Solent | Platform(s): PS2, GCN | Release date: 2004-04-14

Serious Sam 2:
    Developer: Croteam | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-10-11

Serious Sam HD: The First Encounter:
    Developer: Croteam | Platform(s): WIN, X360, LIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2009-11-24

Serious Sam HD: The Second Encounter:
    Developer: Croteam | Platform(s): WIN, X360, LIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2010-04-28

Serious Sam 3: BFE:
    Developer: Croteam | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN, X360, PSN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2011-11-22

Serious Sam 4:
    Developer: Croteam | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-09-24

Serious Sam: Siberian Mayhem:
    Developer: Timelock Studio, Croteam | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-01-25

Shadow Ops: Red Mercury:
    Developer: Zombie Studios | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2004-06-15

Shadow Warrior:
    Developer: 3D Realms | Platform(s): DOS, MAC | Release date: 1997-05-13

Shadow Warrior 2:
    Developer: Flying Wild Hog | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-10-13

Shadow Warrior 3:
    Developer: Flying Wild Hog | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-03-01

Shadowrun:
    Developer: FASA Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, X360 | Release date: 2007-05-29

Shattered Horizon:
    Developer: Futuremark Games Studio | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-11-04

Shellshock 2: Blood Trails:
    Developer: Rebellion Derby | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-02-13

The Ship:
    Developer: Outerlight | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-07-30

Shogo: Mobile Armor Division:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN, MAC, LIN, AMI | Release date: 1998-10-15

Silent Debuggers:
    Developer: Data East | Platform(s): PCE, VC | Release date: 1991-03-29

SiN:
    Developer: Ritual Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, MAC | Release date: 1998-10-31

SiN Episodes:
    Developer: Ritual Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-05-10

Singularity:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-06-25

Slaygon:
    Developer: John Conley, James Oxley | Platform(s): AMI, ATRST | Release date: 1988–03

Smokin' Guns:
    Developer: Smokin' Guns Productions | Platform(s): LIN, OSX, WIN | Release date: 2009-01-01

Sniper: Art of Victory:
    Developer: City Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-06-13

Sniper: Ghost Warrior:
    Developer: City Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS3 | Release date: 2010-06-29

Sniper: Ghost Warrior 2:
    Developer: City Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2013-03-12

Sniper Ghost Warrior 3:
    Developer: CI Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-04-25

Sniper Ghost Warrior Contracts:
    Developer: CI Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-11-22

Sniper Ghost Warrior Contracts 2:
    Developer: CI Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-06-04

Solarix:
    Developer: Pulsetense Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2015-04-30

Soldier of Fortune:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, DC, PS2 | Release date: 2000-03-28

Soldier of Fortune II: Double Helix:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, XBOX | Release date: 2002-05-21

Soldier of Fortune: Payback:
    Developer: Cauldron HQ | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-11-13

SoulTrap:
    Developer: Microforum | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1996-11-26

South Park:
    Developer: Iguana Entertainment Appaloosa Interactive | Platform(s): N64, WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1998-12-12

Space Hulk:
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Platform(s): AMI, DOS | Release date: 1993–06

Space Hulk: Vengeance of the Blood Angels:
    Developer: Key Game | Platform(s): 3DO, PS1, SAT, WIN | Release date: 1995

Space Hulk: Deathwing:
    Developer: Streum On Studio | Platform(s): WIN, PS4 | Release date: 2016-12-14

Spasim:
    Developer: Jim Bowery | Platform(s): PLATO | Release date: 1974–03

Spec Ops: Rangers Lead the Way:
    Developer: Zombie Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-04-30

Spec Ops: Ranger Team Bravo:
    Developer: Zombie Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-11-17

Spec Ops II: Green Berets:
    Developer: Zombie Studios , Runecraft | Platform(s): WIN, DC | Release date: 1999-10-31

Special Force:
    Developer: Hadeel, Hezbollah Central Internet Bureau | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003

Special Force 2: Tale of the Truthful Pledge:
    Developer: Might 3D, Hezbollah Central Internet Bureau | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007-08-16

Special Operation 85: Hostage Rescue:
    Developer: Association of Islamic Unions of Students | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007-07-16

Splat Magazine Renegade Paintball:
    Developer: Global Star Software | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-10-11

Splitgate:
    Developer: 1047 Games | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2019-05-24

The Stalin Subway:
    Developer: G5 Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-09-29

The Stalin Subway: Red Veil:
    Developer: G5 Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-10-05

Star Citizen:
    Developer: Cloud Imperium Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2017-12-23

Star Cruiser:
    Developer: Arsys Software | Platform(s): PC88, PC98, X68K, GEN | Release date: 1988

Star Cruiser 2:
    Developer: Arsys Software | Platform(s): PC98, FMT | Release date: 1992

Star Luster:
    Developer: Namco | Platform(s): NES, Arcade, X68K, VC | Release date: 1985

Star Raiders:
    Developer: Atari | Platform(s): ATR | Release date: 1979

Star Raiders II:
    Developer: Atari Corp. | Platform(s): ATR, CPC, C64, DOS, ZX | Release date: 1986

Star Ship:
    Developer: Atari | Platform(s): ATR26 | Release date: 1977

Star Trek:
    Developer: Sega | Platform(s): Arcade | Release date: 1982

Star Trek: The Next Generation: Klingon Honor Guard:
    Developer: MicroProse | Platform(s): WIN, MAC | Release date: 1998-10-14

Star Trek: Voyager – Elite Force:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, MAC, PS2 | Release date: 2000-09-15

Star Trek: Elite Force II:
    Developer: Ritual Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, OSX | Release date: 2003-06-20

Star Wars:
    Developer: Atari | Platform(s): Arcade | Release date: 1983-05-05

Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back:
    Developer: Atari | Platform(s): Arcade | Release date: 1985

Star Wars: Battlefront:
    Developer: Pandemic Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, OSX, MOBI, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2004-09-20

Star Wars: Battlefront II:
    Developer: Pandemic Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, PSP, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2005-11-01

Star Wars Battlefront:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2015-11-17

Star Wars Battlefront II:
    Developer: DICE | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-11-17

Star Wars: Dark Forces:
    Developer: LucasArts | Platform(s): DOS, MAC, PS1, PSN, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 1995-02-15

Star Wars Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II:
    Developer: LucasArts | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1997-09-30

Star Wars Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith:
    Developer: LucasArts | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-01-31

Star Wars Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, XBOX, GCN, PS4, NX | Release date: 2002-03-26

Star Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, XBOX, PS4, NX | Release date: 2003-09-17

Star Wars: Republic Commando:
    Developer: LucasArts | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX, PS4, NX | Release date: 2005-03-01

Starfield:
    Developer: Bethesda Game Studios | Platform(s): WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-09-06

Starfox:
    Developer: Realtime Games Software | Platform(s): CPC, C64, ZX | Release date: 1987

Starhawk:
    Developer: Cinematronics | Platform(s): ARC | Release date: 1979

Starship Troopers:
    Developer: Strangelite | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-10-27

Stellar 7:
    Developer: Damon Slye | Platform(s): APPII, C64 | Release date: 1983

Strafe:
    Developer: Pixel Titans | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, PS4, LIN | Release date: 2017-05-09

Strife: Quest for the Sigil:
    Developer: Rogue Entertainment | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1996-02-23

Submarine Commander:
    Developer: Thorn EMI Computer Software | Platform(s): ATR | Release date: 1982

The Suffering:
    Developer: Surreal Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-03-08

The Suffering: Ties That Bind:
    Developer: Surreal Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-09-26

The Sum of All Fears:
    Developer: Red Storm Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, GCN | Release date: 2002-05-28

Super 3D Noah's Ark:
    Developer: Wisdom Tree | Platform(s): SNES, DOS | Release date: 1994–12

The Super Spy:
    Developer: SNK | Platform(s): Arcade | Release date: 1990-10-08

Superhot:
    Developer: Superhot Team | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN, XOne, PS4, NX | Release date: 2016-02-25

Superhot: Mind Control Delete:
    Developer: Superhot Team | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-07-16

SWAT 3: Close Quarters Battle:
    Developer: Sierra Northwest | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-11-23

SWAT: Global Strike Team:
    Developer: Argonaut Games | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-10-28

SWAT 4:
    Developer: Irrational Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-04-05

Syndicate:
    Developer: Starbreeze Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-02-21

System Shock:
    Developer: Looking Glass Studios | Platform(s): DOS, MAC, WIN | Release date: 1994-09-23

System Shock 2:
    Developer: Irrational Games , Looking Glass Studios | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 1999-08-11

Tactical Ops: Assault on Terror:
    Developer: Kamehan Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-04-24

Tau Ceti:
    Developer: CRL Group | Platform(s): ATRST, CPC, C64, DOS, ZX | Release date: 1985

Team Fortress:
    Developer: Team Fortress Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-04-07

Team Fortress Classic:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 1999-05-30

Team Fortress 2:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2007-10-10

Terminal Terror:
    Developer: Pie in the Sky Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1994

The Terminator:
    Developer: Bethesda Softworks | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1991–07

The Terminator 2029:
    Developer: Bethesda Softworks | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1992

The Terminator: Rampage:
    Developer: Bethesda Softworks | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1993–12

The Terminator: Future Shock:
    Developer: Bethesda Softworks | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995–08

The Terminator: SkyNET:
    Developer: Bethesda Softworks | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1996–11

Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines:
    Developer: Black Ops Entertainment | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-11-11

Terminator 3: War of the Machines:
    Developer: Clever's Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-11-28

Terminator: Resistance:
    Developer: Teyon | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2019-11-15

Terra Nova: Strike Force Centauri:
    Developer: Looking Glass Studios | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1996-02-29

Terrawars: New York Invasion:
    Developer: Ladyluck Digital Media | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-07-06

Terror Attack: Project Fateh:
    Developer: Shivam Sai Gupta | Platform(s): iPhone, MOBI, WIN | Release date: 2010-06-23

Terror In Christmas Town:
    Developer: Michael Zerbo | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995

Testament:
    Developer: Insanity | Platform(s): AMI | Release date: 1996

Time Crisis 4:
    Developer: Namco | Platform(s): Arcade, PS3 | Release date: 2006-06-20

TimeShift:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-10-30

TimeSplitters:
    Developer: Free Radical Design | Platform(s): PS2, PS4, PS5 | Release date: 2000-10-23

TimeSplitters 2:
    Developer: Free Radical Design | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN, PS4, PS5 | Release date: 2002-10-09

TimeSplitters: Future Perfect:
    Developer: Free Radical Design | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN, PS4, PS5 | Release date: 2005-03-21

Titanfall:
    Developer: Respawn Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, X360, XOne | Release date: 2014-03-11

Titanfall 2:
    Developer: Respawn Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-10-28

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon:
    Developer: Red Storm Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, MAC, XBOX, PS2, GCN | Release date: 2001-11-14

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter:
    Developer: Red Storm Entertainment , Ubisoft Paris , GRIN | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, X360, WIN | Release date: 2006-03-09

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2:
    Developer: Red Storm Entertainment , Ubisoft Paris , GRIN | Platform(s): X360, WIN, PS3, PSP | Release date: 2007-03-06

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six:
    Developer: Red Storm Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, N64, PS1, MAC, DC, PSN | Release date: 1998-05-15

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear:
    Developer: Red Storm Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, DC, MAC, PS1 | Release date: 1999-08-31

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Take-Down – Missions in Korea:
    Developer: Kama Digital Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001-06-20

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3: Raven Shield:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal , Ubisoft Milan , Red Storm Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, OSX | Release date: 2003-03-18

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal , Ubisoft Shanghai | Platform(s): XBOX, PS2, GCN | Release date: 2003-10-28

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3: Black Arrow:
    Developer: Ubisoft Milan | Platform(s): XBOX | Release date: 2004-08-05

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Lockdown:
    Developer: Red Storm Entertainment , Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN, WIN | Release date: 2005-09-08

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Critical Hour:
    Developer: Ubisoft Quebec | Platform(s): XBOX | Release date: 2006-03-17

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS3, PSP | Release date: 2006-11-20

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas 2:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-03-18

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Siege:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2015-12-01

Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Extraction:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-01-20

Total Eclipse:
    Developer: Incentive Software | Platform(s): ATRST, AMI, DOS, C64, ZX, CPC | Release date: 1988

Total Eclipse II: The Sphinx Jinx:
    Developer: Incentive Software | Platform(s): ATRST, AMI, DOS, C64, ZX, CPC | Release date: 1991

Tower of Guns:
    Developer: Terrible Posture Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2014-03-04

Trepang2:
    Developer: Trepang Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-06-21

Starsiege: Tribes:
    Developer: Dynamix | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-11-30

Tribes 2:
    Developer: Dynamix | Platform(s): LIN, WIN | Release date: 2001-03-21

Tribes: Aerial Assault:
    Developer: Inevitable Entertainment | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2002-09-23

Tribes: Vengeance:
    Developer: Irrational Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2004-10-22

Tribes: Ascend:
    Developer: Hi-Rez Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2012-04-12

Tron 2.0:
    Developer: Monolith Productions | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, XBOX | Release date: 2003-08-26

The Truth About 9th Company:
    Developer: Extreme Developers Kranx Productions | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-02-15

Tunnel Rats: 1968:
    Developer: Replay Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-05-15

Turning Point: Fall of Liberty:
    Developer: Spark Unlimited | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-02-26

Turok: Dinosaur Hunter:
    Developer: Iguana Entertainment | Platform(s): N64, WIN, OSX, XOne, LIN, NX, PS4, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 1997-05-30

Turok 2: Seeds of Evil:
    Developer: Iguana Entertainment | Platform(s): N64, WIN, XOne, LIN, OSX, NX, PS4 | Release date: 1998-12-11

Turok: Rage Wars:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Austin | Platform(s): N64 | Release date: 1999-10-31

Turok 3: Shadow of Oblivion:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Austin | Platform(s): N64, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2000-08-30

Turok: Evolution:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Austin | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN, WIN | Release date: 2002-08-26

Turok:
    Developer: Propaganda Games | Platform(s): PS3, X360, WIN | Release date: 2008-02-05

ÜberSoldier:
    Developer: Burut Creative Team | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-11-18

ÜberSoldier II:
    Developer: Burut Creative Team | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-07-22

UberStrike:
    Developer: Cmune Ltd. | Platform(s): MAC, WIN | Release date: 2008–2016

Ultrakill:
    Developer: Arsi "Hakita" Patala | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2020-09-03

Under Siege:
    Developer: Afkar Media | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005

Unreal:
    Developer: Epic MegaGames , Digital Extremes | Platform(s): WIN, MAC | Release date: 1998-05-22

Unreal Mission Pack: Return to Na Pali:
    Developer: Legend Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, MAC | Release date: 1999-06-26

Unreal Tournament:
    Developer: Epic Games , Digital Extremes | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, MAC, PS2, DC | Release date: 1999-11-30

Unreal Tournament 2003:
    Developer: Epic Games , Digital Extremes | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2002-10-01

Unreal Championship:
    Developer: Epic Games , Digital Extremes | Platform(s): XBOX | Release date: 2002-11-12

Unreal II: The Awakening:
    Developer: Legend Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2003-02-04

Unreal Tournament 2004:
    Developer: Epic Games , Digital Extremes | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX | Release date: 2004-03-06

Unreal Championship 2: The Liandri Conflict:
    Developer: Epic Games | Platform(s): XBOX | Release date: 2005-04-18

Unreal Tournament 3:
    Developer: Epic Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-11-19

Urban Chaos: Riot Response:
    Developer: Rocksteady Studios | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2006-05-19

Urban Terror:
    Developer: FrozenSand, LLC Silicon Ice Development | Platform(s): LIN, OSX, WIN | Release date: 2007-04-01

US Special Forces: Team Factor:
    Developer: 7FX | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2002-09-23

Valorant:
    Developer: Riot Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-06-02

Vietcong:
    Developer: Pterodon, Illusion Softworks | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-03-26

Vietcong 2:
    Developer: Pterodon, Illusion Softworks | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-10-24

Vivisector: Beast Inside:
    Developer: Action Forms | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-09-30

Void Bastards:
    Developer: Blue Manchu | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, PS4, NX | Release date: 2019-05-29

The Walking Dead: Survival Instinct:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU | Release date: 2013-03-19

Warface:
    Developer: Crytek Kiev | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2013-10-22

Warhammer 40,000: Boltgun:
    Developer: Auroch Digital | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2023-05-23

Warhammer 40,000: Fire Warrior:
    Developer: Kuju Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2003-09-24

Warhammer: End Times – Vermintide:
    Developer: Fatshark | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2015-10-23

Warhammer: Vermintide 2:
    Developer: Fatshark | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-03-08

WarPath:
    Developer: Digital Extremes | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2006-07-18

Warsow:
    Developer: Warsow Team | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2005-06-08

Water Warfare:
    Developer: Hudson Soft | Platform(s): WiiWare | Release date: 2009-06-23

Westworld 2000:
    Developer: Brooklyn Multimedia | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1996

The Wheel of Time:
    Developer: Legend Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1999-08-31

White Law:
    Developer: Resistance Records | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-07-14

Will Rock:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-06-09

William Shatner's TekWar:
    Developer: Capstone Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995-09-30

Witchfire:
    Developer: The Astronauts | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2023-09-20

Witchaven:
    Developer: Capstone Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1995-09-30

Witchaven II: Blood Vengeance:
    Developer: Capstone Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1996-05-06

Wolfenstein 3D:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): DOS, Arcade, PC98, SNES, JAG, MAC, ARC, 3DO, APPGS, GBA, WIN, LIN, iOS, XBLA, PSN, DROID | Release date: 1992-05-05

Spear of Destiny:
    Developer: id Software | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1992-09-18

Return to Castle Wolfenstein:
    Developer: Gray Matter Studios | Platform(s): WIN, LIN, OSX, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2001-11-20

Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory:
    Developer: Splash Damage | Platform(s): LIN, WIN, OSX | Release date: 2003-04-29

Wolfenstein:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-08-18

Wolfenstein: The New Order:
    Developer: MachineGames | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2014-05-20

Wolfenstein: The Old Blood:
    Developer: MachineGames | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2015-05-05

Wolfenstein II: The New Colossus:
    Developer: MachineGames | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2017-10-27

Wolfenstein: Youngblood:
    Developer: MachineGames , Arkane Lyon | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-07-26

World War II Combat: Road to Berlin:
    Developer: Direct Action Games | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2006-01-24

World War II Combat: Iwo Jima:
    Developer: Direct Action Games | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2006-07-18

World War II GI:
    Developer: TNT Team | Platform(s): DOS, WIN | Release date: 1999-03-15

Wrack:
    Developer: Final Boss Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2014-09-30

Wrath: Aeon of Ruin:
    Developer: KillPixel , 3D Realms | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-11-23

X-Men: The Ravages of Apocalypse:
    Developer: Zero Gravity Entertainment | Platform(s): DOS, LIN, MAC, WIN | Release date: 1997-11-30

XDefiant:
    Developer: Ubisoft San Francisco | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-05-21

Xenomorph:
    Developer: Pandora | Platform(s): DOS, AMI, ATRST, C64 | Release date: 1990

XIII:
    Developer: Ubisoft Paris | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN, OSX | Release date: 2003-11-18

Xonotic:
    Developer: Team Xonotic | Platform(s): LIN, OSX, WIN | Release date: 2010-12-23

Xotic:
    Developer: WXP Games | Platform(s): WIN, XBLA | Release date: 2011-09-16

XS:
    Developer: SCi Games | Platform(s): DOS, WIN9X | Release date: 1996

You Are Empty:
    Developer: Mandel ArtPlains, Digital Spray Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-10-27

Zeno Clash:
    Developer: ACE Team | Platform(s): WIN, XBLA | Release date: 2009-04-21

Zeno Clash II:
    Developer: ACE Team | Platform(s): WIN, PSN, XBLA | Release date: 2013-04-30

Zero Tolerance:
    Developer: Technopop | Platform(s): GEN | Release date: 1994

Ziggurat:
    Developer: Milkstone Studios | Platform(s): WIN, OSX, LIN, XOne, PS4, WiiU, NX | Release date: 2014-10-23

ZombiU:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montpellier | Platform(s): WiiU, WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2012-11-18

ZPC:
    Developer: Zombie Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1996-10-31

== Arcade ==:
    2 SPICY (Sega, 2007)

Panic Museum / Haunted Museum (Taito, 2010):
    Panic Museum 2 / Shh...! Welcome to Frightfearland / Haunted Museum II: Youkoso Gen'ei Yuuenchi he (Taito, 2011)

Steel Gunner 2 *:
    * Unlike the original arcade release, this port uses absolute tracking instead of relative tracking. Because of this, mounted light-guns are no longer a requirement to play this version

Other:
    Multi-purpose Arcade Combat Simulator (Not commercially released, training software developed for and used by the U.S. military.)

Space Gun (Ocean, 1992):
    * Amiga game, which doesn't originally support lightgun, but later modified version for WHDLoad exists

== iiRcade ==:
    * Online services with iiRcade were permanently shut down on June 23, 2023.

=== Xbox ===:
    The House of the Dead III (also contains an unlockable port of The House of the Dead 2)

Starsky & Hutch (player 2 only):
    Some Sega Chihiro titles are installable on a modified Xbox, as the two share nearly identical hardware. So far, only Virtua Cop 3 supports light-gun controllers via this installation method.

=== Xbox 360 ===:
    The Xbox 360 supports the Top-Shot Elite by Red Octane, the Top Shot Fearmaster, and the Top Shot Sport (Kinect light-gun), as well as motion controls through the Kinect as light gun peripherals.

Blackwater (Kinect Motion Controls):
    Cabela's North American Adventures (2010) (Top Shot Elite) (includes light-gun galleries) Cabela's Adventure Camp (2011) (Kinect motion controls) (includes light-gun galleries)

Cabela's Dangerous Hunts 2011 (Top Shot Elite) (includes light-gun galleries):
    Cabela's Survival: Shadows of Katmai (2011) (Top Shot Elite) (includes light-gun galleries)

Cabela's Big Game Hunter 2012 (Top Shot Elite) (includes light-gun galleries):
    Cabela's African Adventures (2013) (Top Shot Elite, Top Shot Fearmaster) (includes light-gun galleries) Cabela's Dangerous Hunts 2013 (Top Shot Elite, Top Shot Fearmaster) (includes light-gun galleries)

Cabela's Dangerous Hunts 2013 (Top Shot Elite, Top Shot Fearmaster):
    Cabela's Big Game Hunter: Pro Hunts (2014) (Top Shot Elite, Top Shot Fearmaster)

MIB: Alien Crisis (Top Shot Elite):
    The Xbox 360 port of Attack of the Movies 3D uniquely has built-in support for mounted-light-gun controllers with how it calculates position rather than velocity from joystick inputs. This feature was never fully realized however as no light-gun peripheral was ever released for the platform that mimicked joystick inputs this way.

=== Xbox One ===:
    The Xbox One supports the Mars Lightcon by PDP and Microsoft's Kinect motion tracking sensor as light-gun peripherals.

=== iOS ===:
    Time Crisis 2nd Strike (iGunCon) (supports using another iOS device as a light-gun via the iGunCon app)

=== Nintendo Entertainment System ===:
    3-in-1 Super Mario Bros. / Duck Hunt / World Class Track Meet

Shooting Range:
    Space Shadow (Hyper Shot only) (includes force feedback and sound effects via the Hyper Shot that are exclusive to this game)

=== Super Nintendo Entertainment System ===:
    The SNES supports the use of two different light-gun controllers, Nintendo's Super Scope wireless light-gun, and Konami's Justifier wired light-gun. All games listed support the Super Scope with the exception of Lethal Enforcers, which can only be played using the Konami Justifier.

The Hunt for Red October (gun is used for bonus games):
    Lamborghini American Challenge (it accesses a different game mode from the normal one)

Lethal Enforcers (Justifier only):
    Multi-purpose Arcade Combat Simulator (Not commercially released, training software developed for and used by the U.S. military. Used a unique M16 MACS replica rifle)

=== Wii ===:
    The Wii is unique in that its standard controller can be used as a gun controller. Though a number of Wii games do not support these capabilities, those which do form an exhaustively long list of games, many of which have no resemblance to traditional light-gun games. Thus, this section will only include games that either explicitly support the Wii Zapper or are rail shooters in nature. Virtual Console ports, such as Operation Wolf, did not include any amount of light gun support. No unique light-gun peripheral is required to play any Wii light-gun or light-gun adjacent game. All titles will work with the standard Wii remote or Wii remote and nunchuck controllers. Licensed and unlicensed light-gun cradle attachments are also compatible with these controllers if needed.

World Party Games:
    3rd person rail-shooters

FPS games:
    007 Quantum of Solace

=== Wii U ===:
    The Wii U supports all of the same wireless IR tracking controllers and peripherals that the Wii uses for light-gun games, as well as the Wii U GamePad for some rail-shooters.

=== Nintendo Switch ===:
    The Nintendo Switch supports the Joy-Con controllers for gyroscope-based aim tracking. Licensed and unlicensed Light-gun styled gun controller cradles were also released for the Joy-Con controllers, such as the Bullseye Pro gun cradle included with Cabela's: The Hunt Championship Edition.

Clubhouse Games: 51 Worldwide Classics:
    46 - Shooting Range

=== Radica ===:
    Menacer (Sega Genesis SOC console with internal 'Menacer 6-game cartridge' game)

Laser Ghost:
    Marksman Shooting (included in compilations: "Marksman Shooting & Trap Shooting" and "Marksman Shooting/Trap Shooting/Safari Hunt")

Rescue Mission:
    Safari Hunt (included in compilations: "Hang on & Safari Hunt", "Marksman Shooting & Trap Shooting" and "Marksman Shooting/Trap Shooting/Safari Hunt")

Space Gun:
    Trap Shooting  (included in compilations: "Marksman Shooting & Trap Shooting" and "Marksman Shooting/Trap Shooting/Safari Hunt")

Unreleased Sega Master System light-gun games::
    3D Gunner (unreleased prototype rom exists, believed to be an early development version of Missile Defense 3-D)

=== Genesis, Sega CD, and 32X ===:
    The Sega Genesis and its add-ons support two different types of light-guns, the wireless Menacer light-gun by Sega, and Konami's wired Justifier light-gun.

The House of the Dead:
    Kochira Katsushikaku Kamearikouenmae Hashutsujo Nakagawa Land Dai Race! no Maki (contains light-gun sequences)

Death Crimson OX:
    Demolition Racer: No Exit (Unlockable in the mini game 'Big Car Hunter', one of only two American released games which worked with the official Sega light gun, released only in Asia and Europe) The House of the Dead 2 US version doesn't work with the original Dreamcast Lightgun, only with third-party guns.

Target Plus:
    The following games worked with the Magnum Light Phaser, but were brought out by third parties. Some were remakes of the Cheetah Defender light-gun games by Code Masters Ltd.

Q's Armoury – Amstrad:
    American Turbo King – (A remake of Super Car Trans Am) – Virgin Mastertronic Ltd (UK)

Supercar Trans-am (Super Car Trans Am):
    It should also be noted that both versions of the light guns that were meant for the 128K+ or up, worked with almost all the games available.

=== PlayStation ===:
    The PlayStation has two major light guns: the GunCon/G-Con by Namco and the Konami Justifier (known as the Hyperblaster in Japan and Europe). Other licensed and non-licensed light guns are compatible with either Justifier games, GunCon games, or both.

Elemental Gearbolt (Justifier/Hyperblaster or GunCon):
    Extreme Ghostbusters: The Ultimate Invasion (GunCon. Justifier/Hyperblaster is also compatible but not specified in the manual or on the packaging, however more than one Hyperblaster at once is unreliable, mixed guns can be used)

Mighty Hits Special (Japan and Europe only, Justifier/Hyperblaster or Guncon):
    Moorhuhn 2 – Die Jagd Geht Weiter' (Europe only, Justifier/Hyperblaster or GunCon)

Rescue Shot (GunCon):
    Resident Evil Survivor (Europe only, GunCon) aka Biohazard: Gun Survivor (Japan only, GunCon)

=== PlayStation 2 ===:
    The PlayStation 2 supports 3 light-gun input types, GunCon (GunCon 1), GunCon 2, and Justifier/Hyperblaster. Some games listed also support connecting an additional PS1/PS2 controller for convenient redundant button mapping, such as the Time Crisis games for cover shooting, or Resident Evil: Dead Aim for simultaneous control stick movement.

Cocoto Funfair (Europe only, GunCon 1 only):
    Death Crimson OX+ (Japan, GunCon 2 only) aka Guncom 2 (Europe, GunCon 1, GunCon 2)

Time Crisis:
    Ninja Assault (North America/Japan, GunCon 2 only), (Europe, GunCon 1, GunCon 2) Police 24/7 (Europe, Justifier/Hyperblaster only*) aka The Keisatsukan: Shinjuku Ni Juu Yon Ji (Japan, Justifier/Hyperblaster only*)

Extra Games mode:
    Time Crisis 3 (North America/Japan, GunCon 2 only), (Europe, GunCon 1, GunCon 2)

Vampire Night (GunCon 1, GunCon 2):
    Virtua Cop: Elite Edition (Europe/Australia, GunCon 2 only) aka Virtua Cop: Re-Birth (Japan, GunCon 2 only)

non-traditional light-gun games:
    Dino Stalker (North America/Europe, GunCon 1**, GunCon 2) aka Gun Survivor 3: Dino Crisis (Japan, GunCon 1**, GunCon 2) (freedom of movement) Resident Evil: Dead Aim (North America/Europe, GunCon 1**, GunCon 2) aka Gun Survivor 4 Biohazard Heroes Never Die (Japan, GunCon 1**, GunCon 2) (freedom of movement) Resident Evil Survivor 2 Code: Veronica (Europe, GunCon 2 only) aka Gun Survivor 2 Biohazard Code: Veronica (Japan, GunCon 2 only) (freedom of movement)

* also supports USB camera for body motion tracking:
    ** requires an additional controller to be connected via the opposite controller port for d-pad inputs. This method also supports rumble force feedback via the second controller (Dino Stalker)

=== PlayStation 3 ===:
    The PlayStation 3 has several dedicated gun peripherals: the GunCon 3 by Namco, the Top Shot Elite by RedOctane, the Top Shot Fearmaster, as well as the PlayStation Move controller. The first revision of PlayStation Move controllers released (CECH-ZCM1U) also included a proprietary EXT port that could be connected to a Playstation Move Sharp Shooter attachment, which electronically and redundantly maps PSMove buttons to additional buttons found on the Sharp Shooter.

light-gun games:
    Cabela's North American Adventures (2010) (Top Shot Elite) (includes light-gun galleries)

Cabela's Adventure Camp (2011) (PSMove) (includes light-gun galleries):
    Cabela's Dangerous Hunts 2011 (PSMove, Top Shot Elite) (includes light-gun galleries) Cabela's Survival: Shadows of Katmai (2011) (PSMove, Top Shot Elite) (includes light-gun galleries) Cabela's Big Game Hunter 2012 (PSMove, Top Shot Elite) (includes light-gun galleries) Cabela's African Adventures (2013) (Top Shot Elite, Top Shot Fearmaster) (includes light-gun galleries) Cabela's Dangerous Hunts 2013 (Top Shot Elite, Top Shot Fearmaster) (includes light-gun galleries)

The House of the Dead III (PSMove):
    The House of the Dead 4 (PSMove) (also includes an unlockable port of The House of the Dead 4 Special)

=== PlayStation 4 ===:
    The PS4 supports the Mars Lightcon by PDP, the PlayStation Move, and PlayStation VR Aim Controller controllers for use as light-gun peripherals.

Big Buck Hunter Arcade (Mars):
    The House of the Dead: Remake (PSMove, PSVR Aim, computer-mouse-based lightguns, DualShock 4 gyro)

=== Sure Shot HD ===:
    ** Note: Due to the 'Sure Shot Shop' shutting down its online services, games that are not currently downloaded and installed to the game console may be unobtainable.

=== Arcadia Image Projecting Game System ===:
    The Arcadia was a cartridge-based projection light-gun system that allowed for two types of light-guns, the Arcadia Electronic Skeet Shoot Rifle, which was a single-shot only rifle with a pump reload and featured force feedback, a speaker for audio feedback, and a red-dot sight built into the front sight, as well as the Radar Pistol, which had a shake reload feature, a speaker for audio feedback, and a built-in laser pointer.

=== Arcadia II ===:
    Cartridge-based light-gun projection system.

== Virtual reality headsets ==:
    For a VR game to qualify in this list, it must be rail-shooter in nature.

=== Nintendo Labo ===:
    The Nintendo Switch supports a cardboard gun cradle for its Joy-Con known as the Toy-Con Blaster featured in the Nintendo Labo Toy-Con 04 VR-kit, which can be used for motion-based VR rail shooters.

=== PlayStation VR ===:
    The PS4 supports the PlayStation VR headset paired with the PlayStation Move controllers and/or the DualShock 4 with its lightbar coupled with the PlayStation Camera for use as VR light-gun peripherals. Sony also separately released the PlayStation VR Aim Controller controller for PSVR which included all of the original dualshock 4's buttons on a VR gun controller accessory.

Blasters of the Universe (PSVR + PSMove):
    Blood & Truth (PSVR + PSMove, PSVR + PSVR Aim, PSVR + Dualshock 4) (includes VR light-gun galleries)

Crisis VRigade (PSVR + PSMove, PSVR + PSVR Aim, PSVR + Dualshock 4):
    Crisis VRigade 2 aka Crisis Brigade 2: Reloaded (PSVR + PSMove, PSVR + PSVR Aim, PSVR + Dualshock 4)

The Copper Canyon Shootout (PSVR + PSMove):
    Darkness Rollercoaster: Ultimate Shooter Edition (PSVR + PSMove, PSVR + Dualshock 4)

=== PlayStation VR2 ===:
    The PS5 has support for light-gun style VR rail shooters through PSVR2.

== 2D ==:
    Platform or sidescrolling game series that originated in 2D.

== 2.5D ==:
    A mix of 2D gameplay/3D style gameplay. See 2.5D.

== 3D ==:
    Platform game series that were born in 3D.

== 2D to 3D ==:
    Game series that were initial 2D and evolved into 3D at some point in their sequels.

3-D WorldRunner:
    Developer: Square | Platform(s): FDS , NES | Release date: 1987-03-12

3rd Birthday, The:
    Developer: HexaDrive | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2010-12-22

25 to Life:
    Developer: Avalanche Software , Ritual Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2006-01-17

50 Cent: Bulletproof:
    Developer: Genuine Games | Platform(s): PS2, PSP, XBOX | Release date: 2005-11-17

50 Cent: Blood on the Sand:
    Developer: Swordfish Studios | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-02-20

Advent Rising:
    Developer: GlyphX Games | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN | Release date: 2005-05-31

Afterfall: Insanity:
    Developer: Intoxicate Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-11-25

Agents of Mayhem:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-08-15

Airheart:
    Developer: Dan Gorlin | Platform(s): APPII | Release date: 1986-??-??

Alan Wake:
    Developer: Remedy Entertainment | Platform(s): X360, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2010-05-14

Alan Wake's American Nightmare:
    Developer: Remedy Entertainment | Platform(s): X360, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2012-02-22

Alan Wake 2:
    Developer: Remedy Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-10-27

Mafia: The Old Country:
    Developer: Hangar 13 | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-08-08

Aliens: Fireteam Elite:
    Developer: Cold Iron Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2021-08-24

Alone in the Dark: Illumination:
    Developer: Pure FPS | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2015-06-11

Alpha Protocol:
    Developer: Obsidian Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-05-27

American McGee's Alice:
    Developer: Rogue Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, MAC, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2000-12-05

Anthem:
    Developer: BioWare | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-02-22

APB: All Points Bulletin:
    Developer: Realtime Worlds | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, PS4 | Release date: 2010-06-29

Apocalypse:
    Developer: Neversoft | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1998-10-31

Apocalyptica:
    Developer: Extreme FX | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2003-10-24

ARC Raiders:
    Developer: Embark studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-10-30

Armed and Dangerous:
    Developer: Planet Moon Studios | Platform(s): WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2003-12-02

Armored Core V:
    Developer: FromSoftware | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-03-20

Armored Core VI: Fires of Rubicon:
    Developer: FromSoftware | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-08-25

Army of Two:
    Developer: EA Montreal | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-03-04

Army of Two: The 40th Day:
    Developer: EA Montreal | Platform(s): PS3, X360, PSP | Release date: 2010-01-12

Army of Two: The Devil's Cartel:
    Developer: Visceral Games , EA Montreal | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2013-03-26

Avatar: The Game:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, Wii, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2009-12-01

Bad Boys: Miami Takedown:
    Developer: Blitz Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2004-02-27

Battlefield Heroes:
    Developer: DICE , Easy Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-06-25

Beyond Forbidden Forest:
    Developer: Cosmi Corporation | Platform(s): C64 | Release date: 1985-??-??

Binary Domain:
    Developer: Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio | Platform(s): PS3, WIN, X360 | Release date: 2012-02-16

Bionic Commando:
    Developer: Grin | Platform(s): PS3, X360, WIN | Release date: 2009-05-19

Bionicle Heroes:
    Developer: TT Games | Platform(s): DS, GBA, GCN, PS2, X360, Wii, WIN | Release date: 2006-11-14

Blasto:
    Developer: Sony Interactive | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1998-04-09

Bloodrayne:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Platform(s): XBOX, PS2, WIN, GCN, OSX, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2002-10-15

Bloodrayne 2:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Platform(s): XBOX, PS2, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2004-10-13

Border Break:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Platform(s): Arcade, PS4 | Release date: 2009-09-01

Brute Force:
    Developer: Digital Anvil | Platform(s): XBOX | Release date: 2003-05-27

Bullet Witch:
    Developer: Cavia | Platform(s): X360, WIN | Release date: 2006-07-27

Bureau: XCOM Declassified, The:
    Developer: 2K Marin | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2013-08-20

Burning Rangers:
    Developer: Sonic Team | Platform(s): SAT | Release date: 1998-02-26

C The Contra Adventure:
    Developer: Appaloosa Interactive | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1998-08-01

C-12: Final Resistance:
    Developer: SCE Studio Cambridge | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 2001-04-06

Cabal:
    Developer: TAD Corporation | Platform(s): ARC, AMI, CPC, C64, ZX, DOS, NES | Release date: 1988-07-25

Cartoon Network Universe: FusionFall:
    Developer: Grigon Entertainment | Platform(s): OSX, WIN | Release date: 2009-01-14

Club, The:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-02-07

Cold Fear:
    Developer: Darkworks | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-03-15

Computer Space [ 1 ]:
    Developer: Syzygy Engineering | Platform(s): ARC | Release date: 1971

Conflict: Desert Storm:
    Developer: Pivotal Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-09-13

Conflict: Desert Storm II:
    Developer: Pivotal Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-09-19

Conflict: Vietnam:
    Developer: Pivotal Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-09-03

Conflict: Global Terror:
    Developer: Pivotal Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-09-30

Control:
    Developer: Remedy Entertainment | Platform(s): PS4, XOne, WIN, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2019-08-27

Cosmic Break:
    Developer: CyberStep | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-12-19

Crackdown:
    Developer: Realtime Worlds | Platform(s): X360 | Release date: 2007-02-20

Crackdown 2:
    Developer: Ruffian Games | Platform(s): X360 | Release date: 2010-07-06

Crackdown 3:
    Developer: Sumo Digital | Platform(s): WIN, XOne | Release date: 2019-02-15

CrimeCraft:
    Developer: Vogster Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2009-08-25

CT Special Forces: Fire for Effect:
    Developer: Asobo Studio | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-03-22

Cyber Sled:
    Developer: Namco | Platform(s): Arcade, PS1, PSN | Release date: 1993-??-??

D.i.R.T.: Origin of the Species:
    Developer: Nu Generation Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-11-08

Damnation:
    Developer: Blue Omega Entertainment , Point of View | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-05-22

Danganronpa Another Episode: Ultra Despair Girls:
    Developer: Spike Chunsoft | Platform(s): PS4, PSV, WIN | Release date: 2014-09-25

Dark Sector:
    Developer: Digital Extremes | Platform(s): PS3, WIN, X360 | Release date: 2008-03-25

Dark Void:
    Developer: Airtight Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-01-19

Days Gone:
    Developer: Bend Studio | Platform(s): PS4, WIN | Release date: 2019-04-26

Dead Rising 3:
    Developer: Capcom Vancouver | Platform(s): XOne, WIN | Release date: 2013-11-22

Dead Rising 4:
    Developer: Capcom Vancouver | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, PS4 | Release date: 2016-12-06

Dead Space:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-10-13

Dead Space 2:
    Developer: Visceral Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-01-25

Dead Space 3:
    Developer: Visceral Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2013-02-05

Dead to Rights:
    Developer: Namco Hometek | Platform(s): XBOX, PS2, GCN, WIN | Release date: 2002-08-20

Dead to Rights II:
    Developer: Widescreen Games | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, WIN | Release date: 2005-04-12

Dead to Rights: Reckoning:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2005-06-28

Dead to Rights: Retribution:
    Developer: Volatile Games | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-04-23

Deadlock:
    Developer: Valve | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: TBA

Deadpool:
    Developer: High Moon Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2013-06-25

Death to Spies:
    Developer: Haggard Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007-03-02

DeathDrome:
    Developer: Zipper Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1996-01-01

Destroy All Humans!:
    Developer: Pandemic Studios | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-06-21

Destroy All Humans! 2:
    Developer: Pandemic Studios | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2006-10-20

Destroy All Humans! Big Willy Unleashed:
    Developer: Locomotive Games | Platform(s): Wii | Release date: 2008-02-25

Destroy All Humans! Path of the Furon:
    Developer: Sandblast Games | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-12-01

Devastators:
    Developer: Konami | Platform(s): Arcade | Release date: 1988-06-23

Devil Inside, The:
    Developer: Gamesquad | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000-03-01

Devil's Third:
    Developer: Valhalla Game Studios | Platform(s): WiiU | Release date: 2015-08-04

Die Hard:
    Developer: Dynamix | Platform(s): DOS | Release date: 1989-12-??

Die Hard Trilogy:
    Developer: Probe Entertainment | Platform(s): PS1, WIN, SAT | Release date: 1996-09-18

Die Hard Trilogy 2: Viva Las Vegas:
    Developer: n-Space | Platform(s): PS1, WIN | Release date: 2000-02-29

Dirge of Cerberus: Final Fantasy VII:
    Developer: Square Enix | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2006-01-26

Dragon Drive: D-Masters Shot:
    Developer: Treasure | Platform(s): GCN | Release date: 2003-03-30

Drake of the 99 Dragons:
    Developer: Idol FX | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN | Release date: 2003-11-04

DRIV3R:
    Developer: Reflections Interactive | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, MOBI, WIN, GBA | Release date: 2004-06-21

Driver: Parallel Lines:
    Developer: Reflections Interactive | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, WIN, Wii | Release date: 2006-03-14

Driver 76:
    Developer: Ubisoft Reflections , Sumo Digital | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2007-05-08

Duke Nukem: Time to Kill:
    Developer: n-Space | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1998-09-30

Duke Nukem: Zero Hour:
    Developer: Eurocom | Platform(s): N64 | Release date: 1999-08-01

Duke Nukem: Land of the Babes:
    Developer: n-Space | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 2000-09-19

E.X. Troopers:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): 3DS, PS3 | Release date: 2012-11-22

Earth Defense Force 2017:
    Developer: Sandlot | Platform(s): PSV, X360 | Release date: 2006-12-14

Earth Defense Force 2025:
    Developer: Sandlot | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2013-07-04

Earth Defense Force 4.1: The Shadow of New Despair:
    Developer: Sandlot | Platform(s): PS4, WIN | Release date: 2015-04-02

Earth Defense Force 5:
    Developer: Sandlot | Platform(s): PS4, WIN | Release date: 2017-12-07

Eat Lead: The Return of Matt Hazard:
    Developer: Vicious Cycle Software | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-02-26

El Matador:
    Developer: Plastic Reality Technologies | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-09-08

Elite Warriors: Vietnam:
    Developer: nFusion Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2005-03-25

Evil West:
    Developer: Flying Wild Hog | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-11-22

Evil Within, The:
    Developer: Tango Gameworks | Platform(s): PS3, PS4, WIN, X360, XOne | Release date: 2014-10-14

Evil Within 2, The:
    Developer: Tango Gameworks | Platform(s): PS4, WIN, XOne | Release date: 2017-10-13

Exteel:
    Developer: NCsoft | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2007-12-04

Fade to Black:
    Developer: Delphine Software International | Platform(s): DOS, PS1 | Release date: 1995-08-31

Fortnite:
    Developer: Epic Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, PS4, XSX/S, XOne, NX, OSX, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2017-07-27

Fracture:
    Developer: Day 1 Studios | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-10-07

Freedom Fighters:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): GCN, PS2, WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2003-09-26

Fur Fighters:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Platform(s): DC, PS2, WIN, iOS | Release date: 2000-06-23

Fuse:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): X360, PS3 | Release date: 2013-05-28

Future Cop: LAPD:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores | Platform(s): MAC, PS1, WIN | Release date: 1998-08-31

Galaxy Game [ 1 ]:
    Developer: Bill Pitts, Hugh Tuck | Platform(s): ARC | Release date: 1971-11

Gangs of London:
    Developer: London Studio | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2006-09-01

Garena Free Fire:
    Developer: 111dots Studio & Garena | Platform(s): DROID, iOS | Release date: 2017-08-23

Gears of War:
    Developer: Epic Games | Platform(s): X360, WIN | Release date: 2006-11-07

Gears of War 2:
    Developer: Epic Games | Platform(s): X360 | Release date: 2008-11-07

Gears of War 3:
    Developer: Epic Games | Platform(s): X360 | Release date: 2011-09-20

Gears of War: Judgment:
    Developer: People Can Fly , Epic Games | Platform(s): X360 | Release date: 2013-03-19

Gears of War: Ultimate Edition:
    Developer: The Coalition | Platform(s): XOne, WIN | Release date: 2015-08-25

Gears of War 4:
    Developer: The Coalition | Platform(s): WIN, XOne | Release date: 2016-10-11

Gears 5:
    Developer: The Coalition | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2019-09-10

Gears 5: Hivebusters:
    Developer: The Coalition | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-12-15

Getaway, The:
    Developer: Team Soho | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2002-12-11

Getaway: Black Monday, The:
    Developer: London Studio | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2004-11-12

Ghostbusters: The Video Game:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Platform(s): DS, PS3, PS2, PSP, X360, Wii, WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2009-06-16

Ghosthunter:
    Developer: SCEE Cambridge Studio | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2003-12-03

Ghost in the Shell:
    Developer: Exact | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1997-07-17

Giants: Citizen Kabuto:
    Developer: Planet Moon Studios | Platform(s): PS2, OSX, WIN | Release date: 2000-12-07

Global Agenda:
    Developer: Hi-Rez Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2010-02-01

Global Defence Force:
    Developer: Sandlot | Platform(s): PS2, PSP, PSV | Release date: 2005-07-28

Global Ops: Commando Libya:
    Developer: Spectral Games | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-10-28

Goddess of Victory: Nikke:
    Developer: Shift Up | Platform(s): DROID, iOS, WIN | Release date: 2022-11-04

Godfather, The:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores | Platform(s): PS3, PS2, PSP, Wii, WIN, X360, XBOX | Release date: 2006-03-21

Godfather II, The:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores | Platform(s): PS3, WIN, X360 | Release date: 2009-04-07

Grand Theft Auto III:
    Developer: DMA Design | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX, OSX, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2001-10-23

Grand Theft Auto: Vice City:
    Developer: Rockstar North | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX, OSX, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2002-10-29

Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas:
    Developer: Rockstar North | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX, OSX, iOS, DROID, X360, PS3 | Release date: 2004-10-26

Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories:
    Developer: Rockstar Leeds , Rockstar North | Platform(s): PSP, PS2, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2005-10-25

Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories:
    Developer: Rockstar Leeds , Rockstar North | Platform(s): PSP, PS2 | Release date: 2006-10-31

Grand Theft Auto IV:
    Developer: Rockstar North | Platform(s): PS3, X360, WIN | Release date: 2008-04-29

Grand Theft Auto IV: The Lost and Damned:
    Developer: Rockstar North | Platform(s): X360, WIN, PS3 | Release date: 2009-02-17

Grand Theft Auto: The Ballad of Gay Tony:
    Developer: Rockstar North | Platform(s): X360, WIN, PS3 | Release date: 2009-10-29

Grand Theft Auto V:
    Developer: Rockstar North | Platform(s): PS3, X360, PS4, XOne, WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2013-09-17

Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy – The Definitive Edition:
    Developer: Grove Street Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2021-11-11

Gun:
    Developer: Neversoft | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN, X360, PSP | Release date: 2005-11-08

Gundam Seed: Rengou vs. Z.A.F.T.:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): Arcade, PS2, PSP | Release date: 2005-01-01

Gungage:
    Developer: Konami | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1999-06-03

Gungrave:
    Developer: Red Entertainment | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2002-09-16

Gungrave: Overdose:
    Developer: Ikusabune | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2004-03-04

Gungrave G.O.R.E:
    Developer: Studio IGGYMOB | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2022-11-22

Guns and Robots:
    Developer: Masthead Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2014-08-04

Gunslinger Stratos:
    Developer: Byking, Taito | Platform(s): Arcade | Release date: 2012-07-12

Gunslinger Stratos 2:
    Developer: Byking, Taito | Platform(s): Arcade | Release date: 2013-11-07

GunValkyrie:
    Developer: Smilebit | Platform(s): XBOX | Release date: 2002-03-30

GunZ: The Duel:
    Developer: MAIET Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-11-01

Heavy Metal: F.A.K.K. 2:
    Developer: Ritual Entertainment | Platform(s): LIN, MAC, WIN | Release date: 2000-08-02

Helldivers 2:
    Developer: Arrowhead Game Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS5 | Release date: 2024-02-08

Heretic II:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): AMI, LIN, MAC, WIN | Release date: 1998-10-31

Hitman: Codename 47:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000-11-19

Hitman 2: Silent Assassin:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-10-01

Hitman: Contracts:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-04-30

Hitman: Blood Money:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, PS3, PS4, XBOX, X360, XOne, iOS, DROID, NX | Release date: 2006-05-26

Hitman: Absolution:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne, OSX | Release date: 2012-11-20

Hitman:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, LIN, OSX | Release date: 2016-03-11

Hitman 2:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-11-13

Hitman 3:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2021-01-20

Hybrid:
    Developer: 5TH Cell | Platform(s): XBLA | Release date: 2012-08-08

Hydrophobia:
    Developer: Dark Energy Digital | Platform(s): XBLA, WIN, PSN | Release date: 2010-09-29

Immortal: Unchained:
    Developer: Toadman Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-09-07

Infected:
    Developer: Planet Moon Studios | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2005-12-15

Infernal:
    Developer: Metropolis Software | Platform(s): WIN, X360 | Release date: 2007-05-08

Inversion:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-06-05

Iron Man:
    Developer: Secret Level , Artificial Mind and Movement | Platform(s): PS3, X360, PS2, PSP, DS, Wii, WIN | Release date: 2008-05-02

Jak II:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Platform(s): PS2, PS3, PSV | Release date: 2003-10-14

Jak 3:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Platform(s): PS2, PS3, PSV | Release date: 2004-11-09

007: Tomorrow Never Dies:
    Developer: Black Ops Entertainment | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1999-11-16

James Bond 007: Everything or Nothing:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores , EA Tiburon , EA Canada | Platform(s): GCN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-02-17

James Bond 007: From Russia with Love:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores | Platform(s): GCN, PS2, PSP, XBOX | Release date: 2005-11-01

James Bond 007: Blood Stone:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, DS | Release date: 2010-11-02

Jet Force Gemini:
    Developer: Rare | Platform(s): N64 | Release date: 1999-10-11

JJ:
    Developer: Square | Platform(s): NES | Release date: 1987-12-07

Just Cause:
    Developer: Avalanche Studios | Platform(s): PS2, X360, XBOX, WIN | Release date: 2006-09-22

Just Cause 2:
    Developer: Avalanche Studios | Platform(s): PS3, X360, WIN | Release date: 2010-03-23

Just Cause 3:
    Developer: Avalanche Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2015-12-01

Just Cause 4:
    Developer: Avalanche Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-12-04

Kane & Lynch: Dead Men:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-11-13

Kane & Lynch 2: Dog Days:
    Developer: IO Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-08-17

Kid Icarus: Uprising:
    Developer: Project Sora | Platform(s): 3DS | Release date: 2012-03-22

Kill Switch:
    Developer: Namco Hometek , Visual Impact | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, WIN, GBA | Release date: 2003-10-28

Last of Us, The:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Platform(s): PS3, PS4, PS5, WIN | Release date: 2013-06-14

Last of Us Part II, The:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Platform(s): PS4, PS5, WIN | Release date: 2020-06-19

Last Survivor:
    Developer: Sega | Platform(s): Arcade, FMT | Release date: 1989-??-??

Left Alive:
    Developer: Ilinx | Platform(s): WIN, PS4 | Release date: 2019-02-28

Loadout:
    Developer: Edge of Reality | Platform(s): WIN, PS4 | Release date: 2014-01-31

Lost Planet: Extreme Condition:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): X360, WIN, PS3 | Release date: 2006-12-21

Lost Planet 2:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): PS3, X360, WIN | Release date: 2010-05-11

Lost Planet 3:
    Developer: Spark Unlimited | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2013-08-27

Love & Destroy:
    Developer: Inti Creates | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1999-12-16

Made Man:
    Developer: SilverBack Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2006-11-06

Mafia:
    Developer: Illusion Softworks | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2002-08-29

Mafia II:
    Developer: 2K Czech | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2010-08-24

Mafia III:
    Developer: Hangar 13 | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, OSX | Release date: 2016-10-07

Mafia: Definitive Edition:
    Developer: Hangar 13 | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-09-25

Marvel Rivals:
    Developer: NetEase Games | Platform(s): PS5, WIN, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-12-06

Marvel's Guardians of the Galaxy:
    Developer: Eidos-Montréal | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2021-10-26

Mass Effect:
    Developer: BioWare | Platform(s): X360, WIN, PS3, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2007-11-20

Mass Effect 2:
    Developer: BioWare | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS3, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2010-01-26

Mass Effect 3:
    Developer: BioWare | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2012-03-06

Mass Effect: Andromeda:
    Developer: BioWare | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-03-21

Matrix: Path of Neo, The:
    Developer: Shiny Entertainment | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-11-08

Max Payne:
    Developer: Remedy Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, OSX, iOS, DROID, PS4 | Release date: 2001-07-24

Max Payne 2: The Fall of Max Payne:
    Developer: Remedy Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-10-15

Max Payne 3:
    Developer: Rockstar Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2012-05-15

MDK:
    Developer: Shiny Entertainment | Platform(s): DOS, PS1, WIN, MAC | Release date: 1997-05-31

MDK2:
    Developer: BioWare | Platform(s): DC, PS2, WIN | Release date: 2000-03-31

Mega Man Legends:
    Developer: Capcom Production Studio 2 | Platform(s): PS1, N64, WIN, PSP | Release date: 1997-12-18

Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction:
    Developer: Pandemic Studios | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-01-11

Mercenaries 2: World in Flames:
    Developer: Pandemic Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-08-31

Messiah:
    Developer: Shiny Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2000-03-31

Metal Arms: Glitch in the System:
    Developer: Swingin' Ape Studios | Platform(s): GCN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-11-18

Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots:
    Developer: Kojima Productions | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2008-06-12

Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker:
    Developer: Konami Digital Entertainment Co. | Platform(s): PSP, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-04-29

Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain:
    Developer: Konami Digital Entertainment Co. | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2015-09-01

Metal Slug:
    Developer: SNK Playmore | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2006-06-29

Metal Wolf Chaos:
    Developer: FromSoftware | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2004-12-22

Miami Vice: The Game:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2006-08-31

MindJack:
    Developer: Feelplus | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-01-18

Mission: Impossible:
    Developer: Infogrames | Platform(s): PS1, N64 | Release date: 1998-07-18

Mission: Impossible – Operation Surma:
    Developer: Paradigm Entertainment | Platform(s): GBA, GCN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-12-02

Mobile Suit Gundam Seed Destiny: Rengou vs. Z.A.F.T. II:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): Arcade, PS2 | Release date: 2006-01-01

Mobile Suit Gundam: Gundam vs. Zeta Gundam:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): GCN, PS2 | Release date: 2004-12-09

NAM-1975:
    Developer: SNK | Platform(s): ARC, NEO, NEOCD, VC | Release date: 1990-04-26

Nanosaur:
    Developer: Pangea Software | Platform(s): MAC, WIN | Release date: 1998-01-01

NeverDead:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-01-31

Oni:
    Developer: Bungie West | Platform(s): WIN, MAC, PS2 | Release date: 2001-01-26

Order: 1886, The:
    Developer: Ready at Dawn | Platform(s): PS4 | Release date: 2015-02-20

Outcast: Second Contact:
    Developer: Appeal | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-11-14

Outcast: A New Beginning:
    Developer: Appeal Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-03-15

Outfit, The:
    Developer: Relic Entertainment | Platform(s): X360 | Release date: 2006-03-13

Outriders:
    Developer: People Can Fly | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-04-01

Outwars:
    Developer: SingleTrac | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-04-01

P.N.03:
    Developer: Capcom Production Studio 4 | Platform(s): GCN | Release date: 2003-03-27

Palworld:
    Developer: Pocketpair | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, XSX/S, PS5 | Release date: 2024-01-19

Paragon:
    Developer: Epic Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4 | Release date: 2016-03-18

Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare:
    Developer: PopCap Games | Platform(s): PS3, PS4, X360, XOne, WIN | Release date: 2014-02-25

Plants vs. Zombies: Garden Warfare 2:
    Developer: PopCap Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-2-23

Plants vs. Zombies: Battle for Neighborville:
    Developer: PopCap Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-10-18

Postal III:
    Developer: Trashmasters, Running with Scissors | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-12-21

Project Eden:
    Developer: Core Design | Platform(s): PS2, WIN | Release date: 2001-10-08

Psi-Ops: The Mindgate Conspiracy:
    Developer: Midway Games | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2004-06-14

PUBG: Battlegrounds:
    Developer: PUBG Studios | Platform(s): WIN, iOS, DROID, XOne, PS4, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2017-12-20

Punisher, The:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-01-18

Quantum Break:
    Developer: Remedy Entertainment | Platform(s): XOne, WIN | Release date: 2016-04-05

Quantum Theory:
    Developer: Team Tachyon | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-09-24

Radar Scope [ 2 ]:
    Developer: Nintendo | Platform(s): ARC | Release date: 1979-12

Ratchet & Clank:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2002-11-04

Ratchet & Clank: Going Commando:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2003-11-11

Ratchet & Clank: Up Your Arsenal:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2004-11-03

Ratchet: Deadlocked:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS2, PS3 | Release date: 2005-10-25

Ratchet & Clank: Size Matters:
    Developer: High Impact Games | Platform(s): PSP, PS2 | Release date: 2007-02-13

Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2007-10-23

Ratchet & Clank Future: Quest for Booty:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2008-08-21

Ratchet & Clank Future: A Crack in Time:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2009-10-27

Ratchet & Clank: All 4 One:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2011-10-18

Ratchet & Clank: Into the Nexus:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2013-11-06

Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): PS5, WIN | Release date: 2021-06-11

Re-Mission:
    Developer: Realtime Associates | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2006-04-03

ReCore:
    Developer: Armature Studio , Comcept | Platform(s): WIN, XOne | Release date: 2016-09-13

Red Dead Revolver:
    Developer: Rockstar San Diego | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-05-03

Red Dead Redemption:
    Developer: Rockstar San Diego | Platform(s): PS3, X360, PS4, NX, WIN | Release date: 2010-05-18

Red Dead Redemption 2:
    Developer: Rockstar Games | Platform(s): PS4, XOne, WIN | Release date: 2018-10-26

Red Faction: Guerrilla:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): PS3, X360, WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2009-06-05

Red Faction: Armageddon:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): PS3, WIN, X360 | Release date: 2011-06-07

Remnant: From the Ashes:
    Developer: Gunfire Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-08-20

Remnant 2:
    Developer: Gunfire Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-07-25

Reservoir Dogs:
    Developer: Volatile Games | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2006-10-24

Resident Evil 4:
    Developer: Capcom Production Studio 4 | Platform(s): DROID, GCN, iOS, NX, PS2, PS3, PS4, Wii, WIN, X360, XOne | Release date: 2005-01-11

Resident Evil 5:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): NX, PS3, PS4, WIN, X360, XOne | Release date: 2009-03-05

Resident Evil: Revelations:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): 3DS, WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2012-01-26

Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City:
    Developer: Slant Six Games , Capcom | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-03-20

Resident Evil 6:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): NX, PS3, PS4, WIN, X360, XOne | Release date: 2012-10-02

Resident Evil: Revelations 2:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne, NX, PSV | Release date: 2015-02-24

Resident Evil 2:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): PS4, WIN, XOne, PS5, XSX/S, NX, iOS, OSX | Release date: 2019-01-25

Resident Evil 3:
    Developer: Capcom | Platform(s): PS4, WIN, XOne, PS5, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2020-04-03

Resistance: Retribution:
    Developer: Bend Studio | Platform(s): PSP, PS4, PS5 | Release date: 2009-03-12

Returnal:
    Developer: Housemarque | Platform(s): PS5, WIN | Release date: 2021-04-30

Ride to Hell: Retribution:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2013-06-25

Risk of Rain 2:
    Developer: Hopoo Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-08-11

Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Conspiracy:
    Developer: High Moon Studios | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-06-03

Rogue Company:
    Developer: First Watch Games | Platform(s): WIN, XOne, PS4, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-09-30

Rogue Trooper:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): PS2, Wii, WIN, XBOX, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2006-04-21

Run Like Hell:
    Developer: Digital Mayhem | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2002-02-27

S4 League:
    Developer: Game On Studio Pentavision (formerly) | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2008-01-01

Saboteur, The:
    Developer: Pandemic Studios | Platform(s): PS3, WIN, X360 | Release date: 2009-12-04

Saints Row:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): X360 | Release date: 2006-08-28

Saints Row 2:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): PS3, X360, WIN, LIN | Release date: 2008-10-01

Saints Row: The Third:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): PS3, WIN, X360, LIN, NX, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2011-10-15

Saints Row IV:
    Developer: Volition | Platform(s): PS3, WIN, X360, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2013-08-20

Scarface: The World Is Yours:
    Developer: Radical Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, Wii | Release date: 2006-10-10

Scars Above:
    Developer: Mad Head Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-02-28

Scourge: Outbreak:
    Developer: Tragnarion Studios | Platform(s): X360, WIN, OSX, PS3 | Release date: 2013-07-03

Second Sight:
    Developer: Free Radical Design | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN, WIN | Release date: 2004-09-03

Shadow Harvest: Phantom Ops:
    Developer: Black Lion Studios | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2011-04-05

Shadow the Hedgehog:
    Developer: SEGA Studio USA | Platform(s): GCN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-11-15

Shadows of the Damned:
    Developer: Grasshopper Manufacture | Platform(s): PS3, X360, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2011-06-21

Shellshock: Nam '67:
    Developer: Guerrilla Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-09-03

Shield, The:
    Developer: Point of View | Platform(s): PS2, WIN | Release date: 2007-01-09

Slave Zero:
    Developer: Infogrames North America | Platform(s): DC, WIN | Release date: 1999-10-31

Sleeping Dogs:
    Developer: United Front Games | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne, OSX | Release date: 2012-08-14

Sniper Elite:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, Wii, OSX | Release date: 2005-09-30

Sniper Elite V2:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2012-05-02

Sniper Elite III:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne, NX | Release date: 2014-06-27

Sniper Elite 4:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, iOS, OSX | Release date: 2017-02-14

Sniper Elite 5:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-05-26

Sniper Elite: Resistance:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-01-30

SOCOM U.S. Navy SEALs:
    Developer: Zipper Interactive | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2002-08-27

SOCOM II U.S. Navy SEALs:
    Developer: Zipper Interactive | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2003-11-04

SOCOM 3 U.S. Navy SEALs:
    Developer: Zipper Interactive | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2005-10-11

SOCOM U.S. Navy SEALs: Fireteam Bravo:
    Developer: Zipper Interactive | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2005-11-08

SOCOM U.S. Navy SEALs: Combined Assault:
    Developer: Zipper Interactive | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2006-11-07

SOCOM U.S. Navy SEALs: Fireteam Bravo 2:
    Developer: Zipper Interactive | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2006-11-06

SOCOM U.S. Navy SEALs: Tactical Strike:
    Developer: Slant Six Games | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2007-11-06

SOCOM U.S. Navy SEALs: Confrontation:
    Developer: Slant Six Games | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2008-10-14

SOCOM U.S. Navy SEALs: Fireteam Bravo 3:
    Developer: Slant Six Games | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2010-02-16

SOCOM 4 U.S. Navy SEALs:
    Developer: Zipper Interactive | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2011-04-19

Soukou Kihei Votoms: The Battling Road:
    Developer: Sunrise | Platform(s): SNES | Release date: 1993-10-29

Soukou Kihei Votoms: Uuodo Kummen Hen:
    Developer: Takara | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1998-4-02

Soukou Kihei Votoms:
    Developer: Yuke's | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2007-11-15

Space Bunnies Must Die!:
    Developer: Jinx | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1998-10-31

Space Harrier:
    Developer: Sega | Platform(s): ARC | Release date: 1985-12

Space Raiders:
    Developer: Taito | Platform(s): GCN, PS2 | Release date: 2002-12-19

Spacewar! [ 3 ]:
    Developer: Steve Russell | Platform(s): PDP1 | Release date: 1962

Spec Ops: Covert Assault:
    Developer: Runecraft | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 2001-12-19

Spec Ops: The Line:
    Developer: Yager Development | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2012-06-26

Splatoon:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Platform(s): WiiU | Release date: 2015-05-28

Splatoon 2:
    Developer: Nintendo EPD | Platform(s): NX | Release date: 2017-07-21

Splatoon 3:
    Developer: Nintendo EPD | Platform(s): NX | Release date: 2022-09-09

SpyHunter: Nowhere to Run:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, WIN | Release date: 2006-09-05

Star Trek: Deep Space Nine: The Fallen:
    Developer: The Collective | Platform(s): MAC, WIN | Release date: 2000-11-15

Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): PSP | Release date: 2007-10-09

Star Wars: Bounty Hunter:
    Developer: LucasArts | Platform(s): PS2, GCN, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2002-11-22

Star Wars: Lethal Alliance:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): DS, PSP | Release date: 2006-12-05

Star Wars: Outlaws:
    Developer: Massive Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-08-30

Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire:
    Developer: LucasArts | Platform(s): N64, WIN | Release date: 1996-12-02

Stranglehold:
    Developer: Midway Studios Chicago , Tiger Hill Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, X360, PS3 | Release date: 2007-09-07

Suffering, The:
    Developer: Surreal Software | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2004-03-09

Suffering: Ties That Bind, The:
    Developer: Surreal Software | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-09-26

Sunset Overdrive:
    Developer: Insomniac Games | Platform(s): XOne, WIN | Release date: 2014-10-28

Syphon Filter:
    Developer: Eidetic | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1999-02-16

Syphon Filter 2:
    Developer: Eidetic | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 2000-03-14

Syphon Filter 3:
    Developer: Sony Bend | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 2001-11-06

Syphon Filter: The Omega Strain:
    Developer: Sony Bend | Platform(s): PS2 | Release date: 2004-05-04

Syphon Filter: Dark Mirror:
    Developer: Sony Bend | Platform(s): PSP, PS2 | Release date: 2006-03-14

Syphon Filter: Logan's Shadow:
    Developer: Bend Studio | Platform(s): PSP, PS2 | Release date: 2007-10-02

Take No Prisoners:
    Developer: Raven Software | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 1997-09-30

Tempest:
    Developer: Atari | Platform(s): ARC | Release date: 1981-10

Terminator Salvation:
    Developer: Grin | Platform(s): iPhone, PS3, WIN, X360 | Release date: 2009-05-19

Thing, The:
    Developer: Computer Artworks | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2002-08-19

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon 2:
    Developer: Red Storm Entertainment | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2004-11-16

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier:
    Developer: Red Storm Entertainment , Ubisoft Paris , Ubisoft Bucharest | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-05-22

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Phantoms:
    Developer: Ubisoft Singapore | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2014-04-10

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Wildlands:
    Developer: Ubisoft Paris , Ubisoft Milan | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-03-07

Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint:
    Developer: Ubisoft Paris | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-10-04

Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN, PS2, GCN, OSX, PS3 | Release date: 2002-11-18

Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow:
    Developer: Ubisoft Milan , Ubisoft Shanghai | Platform(s): XBOX, WIN, PS2, GCN, PS3 | Release date: 2004-03-23

Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal , Ubisoft Milan | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN, NGE, DS, 3DS, PS3 | Release date: 2005-03-28

Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Double Agent:
    Developer: Ubisoft Milan , Ubisoft Shanghai | Platform(s): X360, PS2, XBOX, GCN, WIN, Wii, PS3 | Release date: 2006-10-19

Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Conviction:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): X360, WIN, iOS, DROID, OSX | Release date: 2010-04-13

Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist:
    Developer: Ubisoft Toronto | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU | Release date: 2013-08-20

Tom Clancy's The Division:
    Developer: Massive Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-03-08

Tom Clancy's The Division 2:
    Developer: Massive Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-03-15

Tomb Raider:
    Developer: Core Design | Platform(s): PS1, SAT, DOS, NGE, iOS, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 1996-10-24

Tomb Raider: Legend:
    Developer: Crystal Dynamics | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, XBOX, X360, PSP, DS, GCN, PS3 | Release date: 2006-04-07

Tomb Raider: Anniversary:
    Developer: Crystal Dynamics , Buzz Monkey Software | Platform(s): WIN, PS2, PSP, X360, Wii, OSX, PS3 | Release date: 2007-06-01

Tomb Raider: Underworld:
    Developer: Crystal Dynamics | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, Wii, MOBI, PS2, OSX | Release date: 2008-11-18

Rise of the Tomb Raider:
    Developer: Crystal Dynamics | Platform(s): X360, XOne, WIN, PS4, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2015-11-10

Shadow of the Tomb Raider:
    Developer: Eidos-Montréal | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2018-09-14

Total Overdose:
    Developer: Deadline Games | Platform(s): PS2, WIN, XBOX | Release date: 2005-09-16

Transformers: War for Cybertron:
    Developer: High Moon Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-06-22

Transformers: Dark of the Moon:
    Developer: High Moon Studios | Platform(s): PS3, X360, 3DS, Wii, DS, iOS | Release date: 2011-06-14

Transformers: Fall of Cybertron:
    Developer: High Moon Studios | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2012-08-21

Trigger Man:
    Developer: Point of View | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2004-09-28

True Crime: Streets of LA:
    Developer: Luxoflux | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN, WIN, OSX | Release date: 2003-11-04

True Crime: New York City:
    Developer: Luxoflux | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX, GCN, WIN | Release date: 2005-11-16

Uncharted: Drake's Fortune:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Platform(s): PS3, PS4 | Release date: 2007-11-19

Uncharted 2: Among Thieves:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Platform(s): PS3, PS4 | Release date: 2009-10-13

Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Platform(s): PS3, PS4 | Release date: 2011-11-01

Uncharted: Golden Abyss:
    Developer: Bend Studio | Platform(s): PSV | Release date: 2011-12-17

Uncharted 4: A Thief's End:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Platform(s): PS4, PS5, WIN | Release date: 2016-05-10

Uncharted: The Lost Legacy:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Platform(s): PS4, PS5, WIN | Release date: 2017-08-22

Vanquish:
    Developer: PlatinumGames | Platform(s): PS3, PS4, WIN, X360, XOne | Release date: 2010-10-19

Virus: It is Aware:
    Developer: Cryo Interactive | Platform(s): PS1 | Release date: 1999-06-??

Wanted: Dead:
    Developer: Soleil | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-02-14

Wanted: Weapons of Fate:
    Developer: Grin | Platform(s): MOBI, WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-06-30

Warframe:
    Developer: Digital Extremes | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S, iOS | Release date: 2013-03-25

Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine:
    Developer: Relic Entertainment | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-09-06

Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine II:
    Developer: Saber St. Petersburg | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-09-09

Warhawk:
    Developer: Incognito Entertainment | Platform(s): PS3 | Release date: 2007-08-28

Watch Dogs:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne, WiiU | Release date: 2014-05-27

Watch Dogs 2:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-11-15

Watch Dogs: Legion:
    Developer: Ubisoft Toronto | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-10-29

Waterworld:
    Developer: Ocean Software | Platform(s): VBOY | Release date: 1995-12-21

Wet:
    Developer: Artificial Mind & Movement | Platform(s): PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-09-15

Wheelman:
    Developer: Tigon Studios , Midway Studios – Newcastle | Platform(s): WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-03-24

Wild Guns:
    Developer: Natsume | Platform(s): SNES, VC | Release date: 1994-08-12

WinBack:
    Developer: Omega Force | Platform(s): N64, PS2 | Release date: 1999-09-23

WinBack 2: Project Poseidon:
    Developer: Cavia | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2006-04-25

Without Warning:
    Developer: Circle Studio | Platform(s): PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-10-28

World War Z:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2019-04-16

X-COM: Enforcer:
    Developer: Infogrames Interactive Hunt Valley Studio | Platform(s): WIN | Release date: 2001-04-18

Xybots:
    Developer: Atari Games | Platform(s): ARC | Release date: 1987-11

Cronos: The New Dawn:
    Developer: Bloober Team | Platform(s): WIN, PS5, XSX/S, LIN, OSX, NX | Release date: 2025-09-05

Zombie Army Trilogy:
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Platform(s): WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2015-03-06

Olympic Decathlon [ 1 ]:
    Year released: 1980 | Platform: TRS-80 , Apple II , IBM PC

Party Mix:
    Year released: 1983 | Platform: Atari 2600

Anticipation:
    Year released: 1988 | Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System

Taboo: The Sixth Sense:
    Year released: 1989 | Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System

Itadaki Street:
    Year released: 1991 | Platform: Nintendo Family Computer

Sonic the Hedgehog's Gameworld:
    Year released: 1993 | Platform: Sega Pico

Tails and the Music Maker:
    Year released: 1994 | Platform: Sega Pico

You Don't Know Jack:
    Year released: 1995 | Platform: Windows 3.1 , Windows 95 , Macintosh

Timon & Pumbaa's Jungle Games:
    Year released: 1995 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , Super NES

Sailor Moon Sailor Stars Tokimeki Party:
    Year released: 1997 | Platform: Sega Pico

Getter Love:
    Year released: 1998 | Platform: Nintendo 64

Bomberman Party Edition:
    Year released: 1998 | Platform: PlayStation , PlayStation Network

Mario Party:
    Year released: 1998 | Platform: Nintendo 64

South Park: Chef's Luv Shack:
    Year released: 1999 | Platform: Nintendo 64 , Dreamcast , Microsoft Windows , PlayStation

Mario Party 2:
    Year released: 1999 | Platform: Nintendo 64

The Jungle Book Groove Party:
    Year released: 2000 | Platform: PlayStation , Microsoft Windows , PlayStation 2

Crash Bash:
    Year released: 2000 | Platform: PlayStation

Sonic Shuffle:
    Year released: 2000 | Platform: Dreamcast

Mario Party 3:
    Year released: 2000 | Platform: Nintendo 64

Super Monkey Ball:
    Year released: 2001 | Platform: GameCube

Fuzion Frenzy:
    Year released: 2001 | Platform: Xbox

Rayman Arena:
    Year released: 2001 | Platform: GameCube

Universal Studios Theme Parks Adventure:
    Year released: 2001 | Platform: GameCube

Rayman Rush:
    Year released: 2002 | Platform: PlayStation

Super Monkey Ball 2:
    Year released: 2002 | Platform: GameCube

Pac-Man Fever:
    Year released: 2002 | Platform: GameCube , PlayStation 2

Whacked!:
    Year released: 2002 | Platform: Xbox

Mario Party 4:
    Year released: 2002 | Platform: GameCube

Nickelodeon Party Blast:
    Year released: 2002 | Platform: Xbox , GameCube , Microsoft Windows

Rugrats: I Gotta Go Party:
    Year released: 2002 | Platform: Game Boy Advance

Shrek Super Party:
    Year released: 2002 | Platform: PlayStation 2 , GameCube , Xbox

My Street:
    Year released: 2003 | Platform: PlayStation 2

Polly Pocket! Super Splash Island:
    Year released: 2003 | Platform: Game Boy Advance

Mario Party 5:
    Year released: 2003 | Platform: GameCube

Muppets Party Cruise:
    Year released: 2003 | Platform: GameCube , PlayStation 2

Ape Escape: Pumped & Primed:
    Year released: 2004 | Platform: PlayStation 2

Cartoon Network: Block Party:
    Year released: 2004 | Platform: Game Boy Advance

Sega SuperStars:
    Year released: 2004 | Platform: PlayStation 2

Mario Party 6:
    Year released: 2004 | Platform: GameCube

Ape Escape Academy:
    Year released: 2004 | Platform: PlayStation Portable

Mario Party Advance:
    Year released: 2005 | Platform: Game Boy Advance

Super Monkey Ball Deluxe:
    Year released: 2005 | Platform: Xbox , PlayStation 2

SpongeBob SquarePants: Lights, Camera, Pants!:
    Year released: 2005 | Platform: Xbox , PlayStation 2 , GameCube

Mario Party 7:
    Year released: 2005 | Platform: GameCube

One Piece: Pirates' Carnival:
    Year released: 2005 | Platform: PlayStation 2 , GameCube

Super Monkey Ball: Touch & Roll:
    Year released: 2005 | Platform: Nintendo DS

Every Party:
    Year released: 2005 | Platform: Xbox 360

Crash Boom Bang!:
    Year released: 2006 | Platform: Nintendo DS

Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz:
    Year released: 2006 | Platform: Wii

Rayman Raving Rabbids:
    Year released: 2006 | Platform: Game Boy Advance , Wii , Xbox 360 , Microsoft Windows , Nintendo DS

Tamagotchi Party On!:
    Year released: 2006 | Platform: Wii

Wii Play:
    Year released: 2006 | Platform: Wii

WarioWare: Smooth Moves:
    Year released: 2006 | Platform: Wii

Sonic and the Secret Rings:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Wii

Fuzion Frenzy 2:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Xbox 360

Mario Party 8:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Wii

LOL:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Nintendo DS

Carnival Games:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Wii , Nintendo DS

Jackass: The Game:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: PlayStation 2 , Nintendo DS , PlayStation Portable

Viva Piñata: Party Animals:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Xbox 360

Mario Party DS:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Nintendo DS

Rayman Raving Rabbids 2:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Wii , Nintendo DS , Microsoft Windows

Game Party:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Wii

Doraemon Wii - Himitsu Douguou Ketteisen:
    Year released: 2007 | Platform: Wii

Rocky and Bullwinkle:
    Year released: 2008 | Platform: Xbox 360 ( XBLA )

Hail to the Chimp:
    Year released: 2008 | Platform: Xbox 360 , PlayStation 3

Wonder World Amusement Park:
    Year released: 2008 | Platform: Wii

Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party:
    Year released: 2008 | Platform: Wii , Nintendo DS

Family Pirate Party:
    Year released: 2009 | Platform: Wii ( WiiWare )

Family & Friends Party:
    Year released: 2009 | Platform: Wii ( WiiWare )

M&M's Beach Party:
    Year released: 2009 | Platform: Wii ( WiiWare )

5 Spots Party:
    Year released: 2009 | Platform: Wii ( WiiWare )

Birthday Party Bash:
    Year released: 2009 | Platform: Wii

101-in-1 Party Megamix:
    Year released: 2009 | Platform: Wii , PlayStation Portable , Nintendo DS

We Wish You a Merry Christmas:
    Year released: 2009 | Platform: Wii

Hubert the Teddy Bear: Winter Games:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii ( WiiWare )

Oops! Prank Party:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii

Wii Party:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii

The Garfield Show: Threat of the Space Lasagna:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii , PC

Super Monkey Ball: Step & Roll:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii

Guilty Party:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii

Start the Party!:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: PlayStation 3

Club Penguin: Game Day!:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii

New Carnival Games:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii , Nintendo DS

Disney Channel All Star Party:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii

Pac-Man Party:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii , Nintendo 3DS , Windows Mobile 7

Raving Rabbids: Travel in Time:
    Year released: 2010 | Platform: Wii

Super Monkey Ball 3D:
    Year released: 2011 | Platform: Nintendo 3DS

We Dare:
    Year released: 2011 | Platform: PlayStation 3 , Wii

Rio:
    Year released: 2011 | Platform: Wii , PlayStation 3 , Xbox 360

Wii Play: Motion:
    Year released: 2011 | Platform: Wii

Go Vacation:
    Year released: 2011 | Platform: Wii , Nintendo Switch

Rabbids: Alive & Kicking:
    Year released: 2011 | Platform: Xbox 360

Fortune Street:
    Year released: 2011 | Platform: Wii

Mario Party 9:
    Year released: 2012 | Platform: Wii

El Chavo:
    Year released: 2012 | Platform: Wii

Nintendo Land:
    Year released: 2012 | Platform: Wii U

Sing Party:
    Year released: 2012 | Platform: Wii U

Rabbids Land:
    Year released: 2012 | Platform: Wii U

Family Party: 30 Great Games Obstacle Arcade:
    Year released: 2012 | Platform: Wii U

Super Monkey Ball: Banana Splitz:
    Year released: 2012 | Platform: PlayStation Vita

Game & Wario:
    Year released: 2013 | Platform: Wii U

GamePigeon:
    Year released: 2013 | Platform: iOS

Wii Party U:
    Year released: 2013 | Platform: Wii U

Barbie Dreamhouse Party:
    Year released: 2013 | Platform: Nintendo DS , Wii , Nintendo 3DS , Nintendo Wii U

Mario Party: Island Tour:
    Year released: 2013 | Platform: Nintendo 3DS

The Jackbox Party Pack:
    Year released: 2014 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux , PlayStation 3 , PlayStation 4 , Xbox 360 , Xbox One , Nintendo Switch

Town of Salem:
    Year released: 2014 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , iOS , Android

Mario Party 10:
    Year released: 2015 | Platform: Wii U

Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes:
    Year released: 2015 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , OS X , PlayStation 4

The Jackbox Party Pack 2:
    Year released: 2015 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux , PlayStation 3 , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Nintendo Switch

Animal Crossing: Amiibo Festival:
    Year released: 2015 | Platform: Wii U

Tricky Towers:
    Year released: 2016 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , OS X , Linux , PlayStation 4

Overcooked:
    Year released: 2016 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , Xbox One , PlayStation 4 , Nintendo Switch

Party Golf:
    Year released: 2016 | Platform: PlayStation 4 , Microsoft Windows , Nintendo Switch

Mario Party: Star Rush:
    Year released: 2016 | Platform: Nintendo 3DS

The Jackbox Party Pack 3:
    Year released: 2016 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Android , Apple TV , Nintendo Switch

Tower Unite:
    Year released: 2016 | Platform: Microsoft Windows

1-2-Switch:
    Year released: 2017 | Platform: Nintendo Switch

The Jackbox Party Pack 4:
    Year released: 2017 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Android , Apple TV , Nintendo Switch

Mario Party: The Top 100:
    Year released: 2017 | Platform: Nintendo 3DS

Party Panic:
    Year released: 2017 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux

Scribblenauts Showdown:
    Year released: 2018 | Platform: Nintendo Switch , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One

Among Us:
    Year released: 2018 | Platform: iOS , Android , Microsoft Windows

Overcooked 2:
    Year released: 2018 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , Xbox One , PlayStation 4 , Nintendo Switch , macOS , Linux

Bonkies:
    Year released: 2018 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , Xbox One , PlayStation 4 , Nintendo Switch

Pummel Party:
    Year released: 2018 | Platform: Microsoft Windows

Super Mario Party:
    Year released: 2018 | Platform: Nintendo Switch

The Jackbox Party Pack 5:
    Year released: 2018 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Android , Apple TV , Nintendo Switch

Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz HD:
    Year released: 2019 | Platform: Nintendo Switch , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Windows

Alien League:
    Year released: 2019 | Platform: Microsoft Windows

The Jackbox Party Pack 6:
    Year released: 2019 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Android , Apple TV , Nintendo Switch

The Jackbox Party Pack 7:
    Year released: 2020 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Android , Apple TV , Nintendo Switch

WarioWare: Get It Together!:
    Year released: 2021 | Platform: Nintendo Switch

The Jackbox Party Pack 8:
    Year released: 2021 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Android , Apple TV , Nintendo Switch

Mario Party Superstars:
    Year released: 2021 | Platform: Nintendo Switch

Super Monkey Ball: Banana Mania:
    Year released: 2021 | Platform: Nintendo Switch , PlayStation 4 , PlayStation 5 , Windows , Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S

Crab Game:
    Year released: 2021 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS , Linux

Kirby's Dream Buffet:
    Year released: 2022 | Platform: Nintendo Switch

Town of Salem 2:
    Year released: 2023 | Platform: Microsoft Windows , macOS

Everybody 1-2-Switch!:
    Year released: 2023 | Platform: Nintendo Switch

Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba - Sweep the Board!:
    Year released: 2024 | Platform: Nintendo Switch , PlayStation 4 , PlayStation 5 , Xbox One , Xbox Series X , Microsoft Windows

Super Mario Party Jamboree:
    Year released: 2024 | Platform: Nintendo Switch

LEGO® Party!:
    Year released: 2025 | Platform: Nintendo Switch , PlayStation 4 , PlayStation 5 , Xbox One , Xbox Series X , Microsoft Windows

== Tile matching ==:
    Tile-matching video games are a type of puzzle video game where the player manipulates tiles in order to make them disappear according to a matching criterion. There are a great number of variations on this theme.

=== Falling block puzzles ===:
    Puzzle pieces advance into the play area from one or more edges, typically falling into the play area from above. Player must match or arrange individual pieces to achieve the particular objectives defined by each game.

=== Advancing blocks puzzles ===:
    Block-shaped puzzle pieces advance onto the board from one or more edges (i.e. top, bottom, or sides). The player tries to prevent the blocks from reaching the opposite edge of the playing area.

Puchi Puchi Virus:
    Puzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlords, Puzzle Quest: Galactrix, Puzzle Quest 2

== Algorithmic ==:
    7 Billion Humans

== Top-down maze games ==:
    While the character in a maze would have a limited view, the player is able to see much or all of the maze. Maze chase games are a specific subset of the overhead perspective. They're listed in a separate section.

== First-person maze games ==:
    These are games where the player moves through a maze while attempting to reach the exit, sometimes having to avoid or fight enemies. Despite a 3D perspective, the mazes in most of these games have 2D layouts when viewed from above. Some first-person maze games follow the design of Pac-Man, but from the point of view of being in the maze. First-person maze games are differentiated from more diversified first-person party-based RPGs, dungeon crawlers, first-person shooters, and walking sims by their emphasis on navigation of largely abstracted maze environments.

== Maze chase games ==:
    This subgenre is exemplified by Namco's Pac-Man (1980), where the goal is to clear a maze of dots while being pursued. Pac-Man spawned many sequels and clones which, in Japan, are often called "dot eat games". Other maze chases aren't about getting all the dots or items, and the goal is to clear the maze of the pursuers themselves (e.g., Pengo, Guzzler, Jungler).

== Grid capture games ==:
    In grid capture games, also called line coloring games, the maze consists of lines, and the goal is to capture rectangular areas by traversing their perimeters. The gameplay is not fundamentally different from Pac-Man (players still have to navigate the entire maze to complete a level) but enough games have used the grid motif that it is a distinct style. One unique element is that it is possible to capture multiple rectangles simultaneously, usually for extra points. Amidar established the model for this subgenre.

Tetris:
    Year: 1988 | Platform: Amstrad CPC , Amstrad PCW , Amiga , Atari ST , BBC Micro / Acorn Electron , Commodore 64 , MSX , ZX Spectrum | Publisher: Mirrorsoft | Description: Ports developed by Rowan Software .

Tetris [ 2 ]:
    Year: 1988 | Platform: PC-9800 series , X68000 , FM-7 , PC-88 , MSX2 | Publisher: Bullet-Proof Software | Description: 

Tetris [ 3 ]:
    Year: 1988 | Platform: Famicom | Publisher: Bullet-Proof Software | Description: This version is also available on AtGames ' Legends Flashback console.

Tetris [ 4 ]:
    Year: 1988 1989 2019 | Platform: Arcade Mega Drive | Publisher: Sega | Description: Sega 's arcade version of Tetris was released in December 1988. [ 5 ] In Japan, it was the highest-grossing arcade game of 1989 , [ 6 ] and remained among the top ten annual highest-grossing arcade conversion kits through 1995 . [ 7 ] Mega Drive version developed by Sanritsu Denki , which was cancelled, resulting in less than ten copies being printed. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] A new version based on the arcade version was released on the Sega Genesis Mini in 2019. [ 10 ]

Tetris [ 11 ]:
    Year: 1988 | Platform: TRS-80 CoCo | Publisher: Tandy | Description: Developed by ZCT Systems.

Welltris:
    Year: 1989 | Platform: PC | Publisher: Spectrum HoloByte | Description: Designed by Alexey Pajitnov and developed by Doka. Pieces (including tetrominoes and occasionally pentominoes ) slide down one of four wall surfaces in a well, the "well" being an 8x8 square.  When a piece lands while fully or partially sticking outside of the well, the wall is temporarily blocked.  The game ends when four walls are no longer accessible. Other versions: Amiga , Mac OS (1990, Infogrames [Europe], Spectrum HoloByte [US]) ZX Spectrum , CPC , C64 (1991, Infogrames ) Arcade (1991, Video System )

Hatris:
    Year: 1990 | Platform: NES , Game Boy | Publisher: Bullet-Proof Software | Description: Designed by Alexey Pajitnov . A variety of hats must be made to fall into stacks of five identical hats. Other versions: Arcade (1990, Video System ) PC-Engine (1991, Microcabin )

Faces...tris III:
    Year: 1991 | Platform: Amiga , MS-DOS | Publisher: Spectrum HoloByte | Description: Winner of the 1991 Software Publishers Association Excellence in Software Award for Best Action/Arcade Program. [ 12 ] Alexey Pajitnov's fourth and final official game in the "Tris" series. Developed by Sphere, Inc. The player must arrange falling pieces to form a complete face, which include famous historical figures. Features 10 themed difficulty levels and a head-to-head mode.

Super Tetris [ 13 ]:
    Year: 1991 | Platform: MS-DOS , Amiga , Mac OS | Publisher: Spectrum HoloByte | Description: Developed by Sphere, Inc. Added bombs, new special block types, and two-player co-operative and competitive modes. [ 14 ] Bombs appear in some blocks, which explode when the row is filled and removed.

Tetris 2 + Bombliss [ 16 ]:
    Year: 1991 | Platform: Famicom | Publisher: Bullet-Proof Software | Description: Originally developed by Chunsoft , Tetris 2 + Bombliss (テトリス2+BOMBLISS) was directed by Koichi Nakamura and produced by Tsunekazu Ishihara . [ 17 ] One mode, "Bombliss", features bomb blocks that destroy surrounding blocks when a line is completed. Bombliss uses the gravity algorithm to re-arrange the stage after an explosion has destroyed some blocks. A "Tetris C" mode automatically raises the playfield one level after a certain number of blocks are used. Other versions: Super Tetris 2 + Bombliss (スーパーテトリス2+ボンブリス) (1992, Super Famicom , Bullet-Proof Software ) Super Tetris 2 + Bombliss Limited (スーパーテトリス2+ボンブリス 限定版) (1994, Super Famicom , Bullet-Proof Software )

Tetris Classic:
    Year: 1992 | Platform: MS-DOS | Publisher: Spectrum HoloByte | Description: Includes background graphics depicting scenes from Ruslan and Ludmila , a soundtrack based on Russian folk melodies, and a number of cooperative and competitive two-player modes

Tetris 2:
    Year: 1993 | Platform: NES and Game Boy | Publisher: Nintendo | Description: Uses disconnected colored tetrominos instead of adjacent type tetrominoes, the goal of Tetris 2 is to clear all the bombs by making the blocks of the same color stick together. Released as Tetris Flash in Japan. Other versions: Super NES (1994, Nintendo)

Tetris Battle Gaiden:
    Year: 1993 | Platform: Super Famicom | Publisher: Bullet-Proof Software | Description: Similar to Puyo Puyo in use of competitive mode, characters, and humorous storyline.  Different characters can also unleash special moves that affect the opponent in some way. Also includes a Rensa mode, in which gravity takes a bigger part. Came to the attention of European gamers by way of a review in Issue 18 (April 1994) of Super Play magazine.

Tetris & Dr. Mario:
    Year: 1994 | Platform: Super NES | Publisher: Nintendo | Description: Compilation of Tetris and Dr. Mario with enhanced graphics and sound.

Super Tetris 3 [ 18 ]:
    Year: 1994 | Platform: Super Famicom | Publisher: Blue Planet Software | Description: Sparkliss is similar to Bombliss, but the bombs have orthogonal explosions. Some blocks need to be hit more than once by explosions before they are destroyed. Magicaliss has pieces that may also be one of four colors. Making a full line with one color destroys all the blocks of that color in the stage. The remaining blocks fall in place. Familiss is a four-player multiplayer Tetris .  Each playfield in this mode is 7 columns across, instead of the usual 10 columns.

V-Tetris [ 19 ]:
    Year: 1995 | Platform: Virtual Boy | Publisher: Bullet Proof | Description: Japanese-exclusive. It is not to be confused with the similar Virtual Boy title 3D Tetris , as the two games are entirely different. V-Tetris is mostly the same as the original Tetris games, the only difference being the cylindrical puzzle mode in which blocks could be placed in a 3-D spiral. By using the L and R buttons, or the right D-pad, the screen shifts a block left or right respectively.

Tetris Blast:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: Game Boy | Publisher: Nintendo / Bullet Proof [ 20 ] | Description: Known in Japan as Super Bombliss , Tetris Blast was developed by Bullet Proof, and published by Nintendo. [ 21 ] It was released for the Game Boy in Japan on 17 March 1995, in North America on January 23, 1996. [ 22 ] [ 23 ] It is the same as the Bombliss mode in Super Tetris 2 & Bombliss . In an added "Fight" mode, there are creatures that traverse the constantly changing 'terrain' of the play field and try to hinder the player from clearing the screen of blocks. Players can battle others by using a link cable. [ 24 ]

Tetris Attack:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: Super NES and Game Boy | Publisher: Nintendo, Intelligent Systems | Description: A version of the Japanese game Panel de Pon with redone art made to resemble Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island .  Has no relation to Tetris other than name and genre. Also spawned Pokémon Puzzle League for the N64 , Pokémon Puzzle Challenge for the Game Boy Color , Puzzle League for the Game Boy Advance , and Planet Puzzle League for the Nintendo DS .

3D Tetris:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: Virtual Boy | Publisher: Nintendo | Description: Released only in the United States. Different from the version (V-Tetris) released in Japan. The 3D well mode is similar to Welltris.

Tetris Jr. [ 25 ]:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: LCD game | Publisher: Blue Planet Software | Description: A keychain Tetris game with eight game modes. A port for Windows was also developed.

Tetris S [ 26 ]:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: Saturn | Publisher: Bullet-Proof Software | Description: Released only in Japan.

Tetris Plus:
    Year: 1995 1996 1997 | Platform: Arcade, PlayStation, Saturn, Game Boy | Publisher: Jaleco Nintendo | Description: Added to the classic Tetris is the new Puzzle Mode. Each level begins with a character (the professor) standing on a different pattern of blocks.  This is somewhat is similar to Welltris The goal is to clear the blocks out from under him to get him to the bottom. He climbs to the top of the blocks being stacked up and the game ends when the professor and the descending spiked ceiling collide.

Tetris Plus 2:
    Year: 1997 | Platform: Arcade | Publisher: Jaleco | Description: This version is an improved version of Tetris Plus.

Tetrisphere:
    Year: 1997 | Platform: Nintendo 64 | Publisher: Nintendo | Description: Uses some of the tetrominoes (as well as two 3-block piece) with different gameplay than standard Tetris .  The object of the game is to reveal the core in the center of the sphere (which is actually a torus as seen through a fisheye perspective).  To achieve this, you need to stack similarly shaped pieces on top of each other. Once three are stacked, the pieces disappear and reveal the layer below. If the player doesn't clear blocks fast enough they lose one life, and if they lose three, the game is over. Wild card pieces, power-ups and a limited ability to slide pieces over the surface of the sphere all help with this task.

Tetris DX:
    Year: 1998 | Platform: Game Boy Color | Publisher: Nintendo | Description: The Game Boy version of Tetris updated for the Game Boy Color.

Tetris 4D [ 27 ]:
    Year: 1998 | Platform: Dreamcast | Publisher: Bullet-Proof Software | Description: 

Tetris 64:
    Year: 1998 | Platform: Nintendo 64 | Publisher: SETA Corporation | Description: Includes Normal Tetris , Giga Tetris that has tetrominoes of different sizes, and Bio Tetris that determines the shape and complexity of falling pieces based on feedback from a heartbeat measuring clip that attaches to the play's ear.

Tetris: The Grand Master:
    Year: 1998 | Platform: Arcade | Publisher: Arika / Capcom | Description: Released in Japan, designed for seasoned and skilled Tetris players. At higher levels, tetriminoes begin to drop so fast that they appear immediately at the bottom, with no airborne phase at all; Players only have a split-second to slide the block into designated locations before they lock down. This distinctive style is called "20G". Subsequent entries in the Grand Master series continued the high-speed trend.

Kids Tetris [ 28 ]:
    Year: 1999 | Platform: PC | Publisher: Hasbro Interactive | Description: Tetrominoes start out with two blocks and increase with further lines.  Circus, Firehouse, Haunted House and Laboratory stages have different graphical effects with each cleared level.  Includes printing option.

The New Tetris:
    Year: 1999 | Platform: Nintendo 64 | Publisher: Nintendo | Description: Tetris with a new feature: when a 16-block (4 by 4) square is made, the tetrominos used to form the square are merged as 16-block squares. A square formed using different types of tetrominos is called a combo square or multisquare, and it appears silver. A square formed using four of the same piece is called a pure square or monosquare, and it appears gold. All pieces but the S and Z can form monosquares.

The Next Tetris:
    Year: 1999 2001 | Platform: PlayStation, PC Nuon | Publisher: Hasbro Interactive Crave Entertainment | Description: The Next Tetris was a version of the game with an emphasis on the cascade mode.

Magical Tetris Challenge:
    Year: 1999 2000 | Platform: Nintendo 64, PlayStation Game Boy Color | Publisher: Capcom Activision SCEE | Description: Story mode with Disney characters. The game implements a new Tetris deviation of combos, where consecutive cleared lines give those clears greater value. Non-story variations include magical, updown, and endless mode with other modes which can be unlocked in the story mode.

Sega Tetris [ 29 ]:
    Year: 1999 2000 | Platform: Arcade, Dreamcast | Publisher: WOW Entertainment | Description: 

The Next Tetris: On-line Edition [ 30 ]:
    Year: 2000 | Platform: Dreamcast | Publisher: Crave Entertainment | Description: Version of The Next Tetris with overhauled presentation and visuals and online play added. Released in Europe in 2001 as The Next Tetris with online functionality removed. [ 31 ]

Tetris: The Absolute – The Grand Master 2:
    Year: 2000 | Platform: Arcade | Publisher: Arika / Psikyo | Description: Sequel to Tetris: The Grand Master , featured faster gameplay than its predecessor. A later upgrade, Tetris: The Absolute – The Grand Master 2 Plus, featured several new modes including the "Death Mode" where tetriminoes fall furiously fast right from the beginning.

Tetris With Cardcaptor Sakura: Eternal Heart [ 32 ]:
    Year: 2000 | Platform: PlayStation | Publisher: Arika | Description: Released only in Japan, a Cardcaptor Sakura -themed Tetris game. It presents puzzles in which the player (as Sakura Kinomoto ) has to transform the Clow Cards into Sakura Cards by defeating Eriol 's Tetris style Puzzles. The game also features player vs CPU and contains hidden extras based on the anime series.

Tetris Worlds:
    Year: 2001 | Platform: PC, PlayStation 2 | Publisher: THQ | Description: Includes Tetris , Square Tetris , Cascade Tetris , Sticky Tetris (originally in The New Tetris ), Hot-Line Tetris, and Fusion Tetris . Other versions: PS2 (2002, Blue Planet Software) Nintendo GameCube and Xbox (2002, Radical Ent.) Game Boy Advance (2002, 3d6 Games )

Pokémon Tetris:
    Year: 2002 | Platform: Pokémon mini | Publisher:  | Description: Released only in Japan and Europe, a tiny keychain Tetris game with a Pokémon theme. Features the ability to flip pieces horizontally in addition to standard rotation.

Tetris Advance:
    Year: 2003 | Platform: Game Boy Advance | Publisher: Success | Description: Tetris Advance is a Tetris game published only in Japan.

Tetris Elements [ 33 ]:
    Year: 2004 | Platform: Windows PC, Mac OS | Publisher: THQ | Description: Includes classic Tetris and five variations: Stratosphere, which features meteors that can either help or hurt in eliminating rows; Earthquake, where tremors shake the falling shapes and move them around; Tempest, a double Tetris game where players are switched back and forth between screens; Ice, which has falling icicles that will knock into the falling shapes and make them crash down; and Fire, where heat can cause a chain reaction and melt multiple rows.

Tetris: The Grand Master 3 – Terror Instinct:
    Year: 2005 | Platform: Arcade | Publisher: Arika / Taito | Description: Sequel to Tetris: The Absolute – The Grand Master 2 Plus with several changes in game mechanics and a "Shirase" mode, analogous to Death Mode but with a drastic speed increase.

Tetris: The Grand Master Ace:
    Year: 2005 | Platform: Xbox 360 | Publisher: Arika / AQ Entertainment | Description: First console version in the Grand Master series, one of the launch titles for the Japanese launch of the Xbox 360.

Tetris Mania:
    Year: 2006 | Platform: Mobile Phones | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Description: Cascade Tetris , Sticky Tetris and Fusion Tetris , all previously in Tetris Worlds.

Tetris DS:
    Year: 2006 | Platform: Nintendo DS | Publisher: Nintendo | Description: First version for Nintendo DS. Includes local multiplayer and online multiplayer support.  All based around the NES era of games.

iPod Tetris [ 34 ]:
    Year: 2006 | Platform: iPod | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Description: 

Tetris Evolution [ 35 ]:
    Year: 2007 | Platform: Xbox 360 | Publisher: THQ | Description: First seventh generation Tetris game to be released in the United States. Includes play over Xbox Live .

Tetris Zone:
    Year: 2007 | Platform: Windows PC and Mac OS | Publisher: Blue Planet Software | Description: Features four game modes and the Combo system. Includes online Leaderboards and game playback.

Tetris Splash:
    Year: 2007 | Platform: Xbox 360 | Publisher: Tetris Online | Description: First Xbox Live Arcade title for Tetris . It is also the first game published under The Tetris Company 's new third party Tetris Online.

Tetris Online Japan:
    Year: 2007 | Platform: PC | Publisher: GungHo Online Entertainment | Description: Official online game for Japanese region . [ citation needed ]

Tetris Friends:
    Year: 2008 | Platform: Facebook | Publisher: Tetris Online | Description: Featured ten game modes, including Marathon, Ultra, Sprint, N-Blox, Sprint 5-Player, 1989, Survival, Battle 2-Player, Battle 6-Player, and Rally 8-Player. Leaderboards were based on Facebook friends, encouraging the "friends" aspect. Tetris Friends permanently shut down on May 30, 2019.

Tetris Party:
    Year: 2008 | Platform: Wii | Publisher: Tetris Online / Hudson Soft | Description: A WiiWare title released on 20 October 2008; there were 18 modes, including one which involves building a tower that a tiny person on the stack can climb, and one using the Wii Balance Board .

Tetris Blockout [ 37 ]:
    Year: 2008 | Platform: Mobile | Publisher: Electronic Arts Mobile | Description: Officially licensed crossover between Tetris and Blockout . Includes three variations: Marathon, Ultra, and 20 Planes.

Tetris Pop [ 38 ]:
    Year: 2008 | Platform: Mobile | Publisher: Electronic Arts Mobile | Description: Features 17 mini-variations, including Ball, Circuit, Erosion, Filler, Flood, Furnace, Limbo, Meteors, Touchdown, Scanner, Split, Stacker, and Vanilla. Three game modes: Pop, Mix, Chrono. Tetris Pop to be released worldwide for mobile devices. Expected Winter 2008.

Tetris Giant:
    Year: 2009 | Platform: Arcade | Publisher: Sega | Description: A giant version of Tetris that features a playing field that is 6 cells wide by 7 cells high as opposed to the almost universal 10 cells wide by 20 cells high. The game is played on a large 70" DLP Projection Monitor and is controlled using giant joysticks with a built-in rumble motor. The base unit is actually a projector which can optionally be detached from the default screen and projected onto a large wall.

Tetris Party Deluxe:
    Year: 2010 | Platform: Wii, Nintendo DS | Publisher: Tetris Online / Majesco / Hudson Soft | Description: Expanded retail version of Tetris Party . Online players can compete with players of original Tetris Party and Tetris Party Live

Tetris Party Live [ 39 ]:
    Year: 2010 | Platform: Nintendo DSi | Publisher: Tetris Online / Hudson Soft | Description: A DSiWare title featuring several modes (Marathon, VS, Battle, and Dual Spaces). The focus of the game is multiplayer, where players can compete with other players around the world in real-time.

Tetris Battle [ 40 ]:
    Year: 2010 | Platform: Facebook | Publisher: Tetris Online | Description: Similar in design to Tetris Friends, this game features competitive Tetris modes against friends or random people. Both direct "battles" and competitive 40-line sprints are included.

Tetris (EA Games):
    Year: 2011 | Platform: PlayStation 3 , PSP | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Description: Features over 10 modalities, including Original, Gravity and Laser. It's also possible to play a bonus modality named "Variant", what includes some modified variants of these modalities. It also includes new soundtracks. Available for download in the PlayStation Network as a Mini. The PS3 version features exclusive Power Ups, Shared Mode, and Team Battle.

Tetris (EA Mobile) [ 41 ]:
    Year: 2011 | Platform: iOS , Android , Windows Phone , BlackBerry | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Description: Features two modalities of gameplay: the classic Marathon mode and a new mode named "Magic", what features a new gameplay style and over new 20 levels. It also includes new soundtracks. In fall 2011 the game was removed from the iOS and Android app stores. However, the Android version can actually be purchased on the Amazon Appstore.

Tetris: Axis:
    Year: 2011 | Platform: Nintendo 3DS | Publisher: Nintendo | Description: Published on 2 October 2011. [ 42 ] It featured modes that used the 3DS's AR card functionality.

Tetris (Premium) [ 43 ]:
    Year: 2011 | Platform: iOS | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Description: Features two modalities: the classic Marathon mode and a new mode named "Galaxy", what features a new gameplay style and over new 50 levels. It also includes new soundtracks and the classic 8-bit theme from the original Tetris game. Not to be confused with the 2011 game. Following N3TWORK INC. 's acquisition of the Tetris license, both the iOS and Android versions of this game were discontinued and retired from their respective app stores on 21 April 2020.

Tetris Stars [ 44 ]:
    Year: 2011 | Platform: Facebook | Publisher: Tetris Online | Description: Free-to-play, this casual arcade "digging" style game features a social leaderboard with friends, mouse-based controls, and power up items.

Tetris Blitz [ 45 ] [ 46 ]:
    Year: 2013 | Platform: iOS , Android , Windows Phone , Microsoft Windows | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Description: Each game completes in two minutes, Features exclusive Power Up of the Week, Bonus Blitz minigame, and online leaderboards.

Puyo Puyo Tetris:
    Year: 2014 | Platform: Nintendo 3DS , Wii U , PlayStation 3 , PlayStation Vita , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Nintendo Switch (2017), Microsoft Windows PC | Publisher: Sega | Description: Tetris versus Puyo Puyo . The game features modes that allow for playing standalone Tetris, standalone Puyo Puyo, and a Fusion mode that combines the two.

Tetris [ 47 ]:
    Year: 2014 | Platform: Amazon Fire TV | Publisher: Tetris Online | Description: Featuring three game modes: Marathon, Sprint, or Ultra. Also has over 40 different achievements to earn along the way, as well as global leaderboards to compare a player's progress against other GameCircle participants.

Tetris Battle: Fusion [ 48 ]:
    Year: 2014 | Platform: Amazon Fire TV , Ouya | Publisher: Tetris Online | Description: A game based on Tetris Battle, which introduces an all-new interactive adventure where players can battle their way through a series of challenging opponents and goals to become a Tetris Master, where they have to collect special Amulets that can be used to give them an added boost as they progress their way to victory. Over 50 Amulets can be collected.

Tetris Ultimate:
    Year: 2014 | Platform: Nintendo 3DS , PlayStation Vita , PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Microsoft Windows | Publisher: Ubisoft | Description: To coincide with the franchises' 30th Anniversary and in partnership with The Tetris Company and SoMa Play.

Tetris Effect:
    Year: 2018 | Platform: PlayStation 4 , Microsoft Windows , Oculus Quest [ 49 ] | Publisher: Enhance | Description: Includes support for Virtual reality ( PlayStation VR , HTC Vive , Oculus Rift and Oculus Quest ) and features a "Zone" mechanic which allows the player to freeze time and clear more than four lines at once. Superseded by Tetris Effect: Connected.

Tetris 99:
    Year: 2019 | Platform: Nintendo Switch | Publisher: Nintendo | Description: A multiplayer Battle Royale variant of Tetris exclusive to Nintendo Switch Online members.

Tetris M1ND BEND3RS [ 50 ]:
    Year: 2019 | Platform: Browsers | Publisher: Red Bull | Description: A browser version created by Red Bull. Tetris M1ND BEND3RS is a twist on the traditional formula by having different effects whenever the player clears a certain line.

Tetris x Hello Kitty [ 51 ]:
    Year: 2019 | Platform: Browsers | Publisher: Sanrio | Description: 

Tetris (N3TWORK) [ 52 ] [ 53 ]:
    Year: 2020 | Platform: iOS , Android | Publisher: N3TWORK | Description: 

Tetris Effect: Connected:
    Year: 2020 | Platform: Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S ; [ 54 ] PlayStation 4 , Microsoft Windows , Oculus Quest , Nintendo Switch [ 55 ] | Publisher: Enhance | Description: A release of Tetris Effect for the Xbox One, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Windows that adds a 'connected' suite of multiplayer modes. It was confirmed that the connected multiplayer modes would be ported to the original Tetris Effect as an expansion in Summer 2021.

Puyo Puyo Tetris 2 [ 56 ]:
    Year: 2020 | Platform: PlayStation 4 , Xbox One , Nintendo Switch , Nintendo Switch 2 , PlayStation 5 , Xbox Series X/S , Microsoft Windows [ 57 ] | Publisher: Sega | Description: Sequel to Puyo Puyo Tetris . The game features additions like a new Skill Battle mode containing skills and item cards unique to various characters.

Tetris Beat:
    Year: 2021 | Platform: Apple Arcade | Publisher: N3TWORK Inc. | Description: A mobile Tetris game exclusive to Apple Arcade. A new twist to the formula that introduces songs from real life artists and rhythm based gameplay.

Tetris Forever [ 58 ]:
    Year: 2024 | Platform: PlayStation 4 , PlayStation 5 , Xbox One , Xbox Series X/S , Nintendo Switch , Microsoft Windows | Publisher: Digital Eclipse | Description: A compilation release commemorating the 40th anniversary of Tetris . Includes playable emulations of multiple Tetris games, an all-new version called Tetris Time Warp , and 90 minutes of documentary footage. Part of Digital Eclipse's Gold Master Series .

Tetris: The Grand Master 4 – Absolute Eye:
    Year: 2025 | Platform: Microsoft Windows | Publisher: Arika | Description: The fourth entry in the Tetris: The Grand Master series. New modes include Konoha, which involves clearing the board using giant Tetriminos, and Shiranui, a mode where players play versus matches against increasingly difficult AI opponents.

Tetris [ 61 ]:
    Year: 1986 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Andic Software (UK) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris [ 62 ]:
    Year: 1986 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: V.A. Baliasov (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Nyet [ 63 ] [ 64 ]:
    Year: 1988 | Platform: PC , MS-DOS | Developer: David Howorth | Description: Freeware clone of Tetris

Tetris [ 65 ]:
    Year: 1988 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Mirrorsoft Ltd (UK) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris [ 66 ]:
    Year: 1988 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Rafii Soft (Poland) | Description: Tetris clone.

3D Tetris [ 67 ]:
    Year: 1989 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Antic Software (Czech) | Description: 3D-Tetris.

EGAint [ 68 ]:
    Year: 1989 | Platform: PC , MS-DOS | Developer: Eric Ng | Description: Like "Standard Tetris " but with options of more/less complex dropping figures ( Polyominoes ). Easiest level included 1-square figures (also known as Monominoes ). Hardest level included figures of up to 8-square figures ( octominoes ), including "holes".

Tetris [ 69 ]:
    Year: 1989 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Milan Vosika (Czech) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris 3Z [ 70 ]:
    Year: 1989 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Zdeno & Peter | Description: Tetris clone.

KUBIS [ 71 ]:
    Year: 1989, 1996 updated | Platform: Atari ST series up to TT and Falcon | Developer: Julian F. Reschke | Description: GEM accessory which can be started out of any GEM application through the DESK menu. First release was in 1989, enhanced version in 1996.

Frac4D [ 72 ] [ 73 ]:
    Year: 1990 | Platform: MS-DOS | Developer: Per Bergland, Max Tegmark | Description: A version in which the falling pieces are tesseracts that can be rotated in four dimensions .

Tetris [ 74 ]:
    Year: 1990 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Fuxoft (Czech) | Description: Tetris clone.

Twintris [ 75 ]:
    Year: 1990 | Platform: Amiga | Developer: Digital Marketing | Description: Dual version of Tetris originally designed for the Commodore Amiga, with less known ports to other platforms.

Super Twintris [ 76 ]:
    Year: 1991 | Platform: Amiga | Developer: Big Brother Copy (BBC) | Description: Supposed sequel to Twintris with nothing but minor improvements.

TERTIS:
    Year: 1991 | Platform: Acorn Archimedes | Developer: SICK | Description: Unofficial version of Tetris for Acorn Archimedes from Irish developer SICK. Heavily leans into the game's origins to the Soviet Union, with the cursor even being represented by a hammer and sickle. [ 77 ] Appears to use the BBC Micro release as a base, as it includes the block statistics bar, but adds graphical features such as simple polygonal models for both high score letters and current block in play. Only features single player score attack and interestingly is labelled as both TETris and TERtis in-game, in multiple menus, at the same time.

Tetris [ 78 ]:
    Year: 1991 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: AcademySoft (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris [ 79 ]:
    Year: 1991 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Tera Software (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris Max:
    Year: 1992 [ 80 ] | Platform: Mac OS Classic | Developer: Steve Chamberlin | Description: A shareware Tetris game. In 1993, Tetris Max received an honorable mention in the MacUser shareware awards. [ 81 ] [ 82 ]

Block Buster [ 83 ]:
    Year: 1992 | Platform: Watara Supervision | Developer: Bon Treasure Co., Ltd. | Description: 

Tetris [ 84 ]:
    Year: 1992 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Shop for Games (Slovakia) / Borec Software (Slovakia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Bomb Tetris [ 85 ]:
    Year: 1993 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Micro ART (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Night Tetris [ 86 ]:
    Year: 1993 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Chemist Soft (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Russian Tetris [ 87 ]:
    Year: 1993 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: THD (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Super Tetris [ 88 ]:
    Year: 1993 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Yunior Soft (Russia) / TK Ltd (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris 1.4 [ 89 ]:
    Year: 1993 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Pavel Foltán (Czech) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris 4 [ 90 ]:
    Year: 1994 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Viktor Drozd (Belarus) | Description: Tetris clone.

Edtris 2600 [ 91 ]:
    Year: 1994 | Platform: Atari 2600 | Developer: Ed Federmeyer | Description: Tetris clone.

5 in 1 Tetris [ 92 ]:
    Year: 1995 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Mortal Kombat Hackers Group (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Ammytris [ 93 ]:
    Year: 1995 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Gomel Belarius | Description: Simple Tetris clone.

Sextris [ 94 ]:
    Year: 1995 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Silicon Brains Group | Description: Tetris with a female face on the background.

Tetris [ 95 ]:
    Year: 1995 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: R&S Compani (Belarus) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tiny Tetris [ 96 ]:
    Year: 1995 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Oleg N. Cher (Ukraine) | Description: Tetris clone.

T-Tris:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: Atari Lynx | Developer: B.Schick/L.Baumstark | Description: Adaptation with save game option and up to 16 players. First Lynx homebrew game.

Digital Tetris [ 97 ]:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Smash (Russia) | Description: Tetris with faces appearing on the left of the screen.

Double Tetris [ 98 ]:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: MAS (Lithuania) | Description: Full screen tetris.

Tetris II [ 99 ]:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: MSX2 , MSX2+ , MSX turbo R | Developer: Renegade, Artic Soft, MicroTec | Description: 

Home Tetris [ 100 ]:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Russian Bear Group (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Super Tetris 2 [ 101 ]:
    Year: 1996 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Accept Corp (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Bubble Tetris [ 102 ]:
    Year: 1997 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: P.O.V. (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone with screen distortion.

Wordtris:
    Year:  | Platform: Windows PC Super NES Game Boy | Developer:  | Description: Players try to complete words found in the dictionary file.

Mega Tetris 2000 [ 103 ]:
    Year: 1999 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Push & DGMS (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Super Tetris [ 104 ]:
    Year: 1999 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Alex Art (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

La Bastille:
    Year: 2000 | Platform: Linux | Developer: Tech House, Brown University | Description: A version implemented on the 10-story tall science library building at Brown University, using Linux. [ 105 ]

Tetris 1D [ 106 ]:
    Year: 2002 | Platform:  | Developer: Ziga Hajdukovic | Description: A joke version with a single column. The player is repeatedly given only the long piece, and only has one control key (to increase the falling rate.) 1D Tetris was included in the "Zero Gamer" Exhibition as a "game that tests the viewers' endurance in meditative inaction." [ 107 ]

Quinn:
    Year: 2006 | Platform: Mac OS X | Developer: Simon Haertel | Description: Recreation of Tetris with network capability through TCP/IP and Bonjour . [ 108 ] The Tetris Company requested removal in 2006, [ 109 ] but it was available as of 2008 with a disclaimer that it is not "affiliated with or sponsored by The Tetris Company or part of their Tetris line of products." [ 110 ]

Mockatetris [ 111 ]:
    Year: 2008 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Rafal Miazga (Poland) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tris:
    Year: 2008 | Platform: Mac OS X | Developer: Witherspoon | Description: Removed from Mac App Store at the request of The Tetris Company. [ 110 ]

Tetris Grand Master 3:
    Year: 2008 | Platform: Nintendo DS | Developer: MeRAMAN | Description: A remake of the arcade game Tetris: The Grand Master with additional features such as invisible blocks. [ 112 ]

NullpoMino:
    Year: 2008 | Platform: Windows PC Linux Mac OS X | Developer: NullNoname | Description: Open-source Tetris fan game notable for its variety of gameplay modes and customizability. The Nullpomino League Edition allowed for tournament play and sprint training. NullpoMino gameplay videos of Mario and Luigi patterns were shown in the Yoasobi Sanshimai show. [ 113 ]

Mino:
    Year: 2009 | Platform: iOS | Developer: Xio Interactive, Inc. | Description: A game with the same mechanics as Tetris . Mino also featured multiplayer support for up to four players. [ 114 ] In a 2012 U.S. District Court ruling , Mino was found to have infringed on the Tetris Company 's copyrights because it had replicated a combination of visual elements from the official Tetris . [ 115 ]

Color Tetris [ 116 ]:
    Year: 2010 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Perspective Group (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

Not Tetris:
    Year: 2010 | Platform: PC | Developer: Maurice Guegan | Description: Adds free rotation and physics engine behavior to the falling blocks. [ 117 ]

Tetris 2 Returns [ 118 ]:
    Year: 2011 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Hippiman (Russia) | Description: Tetris clone.

BizTros [ 119 ]:
    Year: 2011 | Platform: Web browser | Developer: William Bereza | Description: Tetris clone on Tumblr.

Jstris:
    Year: 2014 [ 120 ] | Platform: Web browser | Developer: jezevec10 | Description: A free-to-play online multiplayer block game. [ 121 ] Jstris is a simple online multiplayer block game built in JavaScript , HTML5 , and Python (server), [ 122 ] [ 123 ] comparable to "battle royale" game such as Tetris 99 . [ 124 ]

Tetraminos:
    Year: 2016 | Platform: PC, Xbox One, PS4, Wii U | Developer: Sanuk Games | Description: Adds 5 non-default tetramino shapes, combos and extra point for single color lines. [ 125 ]

Tetris [ 126 ]:
    Year: 2018 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Howard Price (UK) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris [ 127 ]:
    Year: 2019 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Ozzyoss Software (Czech) | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris Championship Edition [ 128 ]:
    Year: 2020 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Fitosoft | Description: Simple Tetris clone.

TETR.IO:
    Year: 2020 [ 129 ] | Platform: Web browser | Developer: osk | Description: An online multiplayer stacker game with global leaderboards, worldwide matches, [ 130 ] and a "battle royale" style gamemode comparable to Tetris 99 . [ 131 ] In 2021, TETR.IO had 2.6 million active players worldwide. [ 132 ]

Tetris [ 133 ]:
    Year: 2021 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Rui Martins | Description: Simple Tetris clone.

TEMU GB Tetris Emulator [ 134 ]:
    Year: 2021 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: 40crisis | Description: Tetris clone.

Tetris [ 135 ]:
    Year: 2021 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Bubu (Spain) | Description: Tetris clone.

Brick Gang World [ 136 ]:
    Year: 2022 | Platform: Android | Developer: Blackjack Company | Description: Features 29 different shapes of puzzle tiles with options such as Invisible mode and is designed for skilled Tetris players.

Fitris [ 137 ]:
    Year: 2023 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Bubu | Description: Arcade Tetris clone.

Kuatris [ 138 ]:
    Year: 2023 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: MrRancio | Description: Simple Tetris clone.

Tetris4px [ 139 ]:
    Year: 2023 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Ignacobo | Description: Small screen Tetris clone.

Zetrix [ 140 ]:
    Year: 2023 | Platform: ZX Spectrum | Developer: Retroteam | Description: Illegal copy of Ammytris.

A Question of Sport:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Bell-Fruit Manufacturing Company | Side notes: 

Answer X Answer:
    Release date: 2007 | Publisher: Sega Enterprises, Ltd. (of Tokyo, Japan) | Side notes: 

Athena No Hatena?:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Athena | Side notes: 

Bakuretsu Quiz Ma-Q Dai Bouken:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Namco | Side notes: 

Big Bucks Trivia:
    Release date: 1986 | Publisher: Dynasoft | Side notes: 

Capcom World: Adventure Quiz:
    Release date: 1989 | Publisher: Capcom | Side notes: 

Capcom World 2: Adventure Quiz:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Capcom | Side notes: 

Cash Quiz:
    Release date: 1986 | Publisher: Zilec-Zenitone | Side notes: 

Chevrolet I.Q. Computer:
    Release date: Early 1970s | Publisher: Modec, Inc. | Side notes: 

Chibi Maruko-chan: Maruko Deluxe Quiz:
    Release date: 1995 | Publisher: Takara | Side notes: 

Computer Quiz:
    Release date: 1968 | Publisher: Nutting Associates (of Mountain View, CA) | Side notes: 

Crayon Shin-chan: Ora To Asobo:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Daisu-Kiss:
    Release date: 1996 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Date Quiz Go! Go!:
    Release date: 1998 | Publisher: SemiCom | Side notes: 

Date Quiz Go! Go!: Episode 2:
    Release date: 2000 | Publisher: SemiCom | Side notes: 

Derby Quiz: My Dream Horse:
    Release date: 1998 | Publisher: Namco | Side notes: 

Dramatic Adventure Quiz: Keith & Lucy:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Visco Corporation | Side notes: 

Dual-IQ Computer:
    Release date: 1970 | Publisher: Nutting Associates (of Mountain View, CA) | Side notes: 

Every Second Counts:
    Release date: 1990 | Publisher: Bell-Fruit Manufacturing Company | Side notes: 

Family Planning Computer:
    Release date: Early 1970s | Publisher: Modec, Inc. | Side notes: 

Fax:
    Release date: 1983 | Publisher: Exidy | Side notes: 

Gals Panic II: Quiz Edition:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Kaneko | Side notes: 

Golf-IQ:
    Release date: 1970 | Publisher: Nutting Associates (of Mountain View, CA) | Side notes: 

Gourmet Battle Quiz: Ryorioh Cooking:
    Release date: 1998 | Publisher: Visco Corporation | Side notes: 

Great Quiz Detective:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: SNK | Side notes: 

Hatena? No Dai Bouken: Adventure Quiz 2:
    Release date: 1990 | Publisher: Capcom | Side notes: 

Hayaoshi Quiz: Grand Champion Taikai:
    Release date: 1994 | Publisher: Jaleco | Side notes: 

Hayaoshi Quiz: Nettou Namahousou:
    Release date: 1994 | Publisher: Jaleco | Side notes: 

Hayaoshi Quiz: Ouza Ketteisen:
    Release date: 1994 | Publisher: Jaleco | Side notes: 

Hayaoshi Taisen Quiz HYHOO:
    Release date: 1987 | Publisher: Nichibutsu (of Osaka, Japan) | Side notes: 

Hayaoshi Taisen Quiz HYHOO 2:
    Release date: 1987 | Publisher: Nichibutsu (of Osaka, Japan) | Side notes: 

Inquizitor:
    Release date: 1989 | Publisher: Bell-Fruit Manufacturing Company | Side notes: 

Intelligence Computer:
    Release date: 1970 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

I.Q. Computer:
    Release date: Early 1970s | Publisher: Nutting Associates (of Mountain View, CA) | Side notes: 

Kaiun Quiz:
    Release date: 1999 | Publisher: Namco | Side notes: 

Karaoke Quiz Intro Don Don!:
    Release date: 1996 | Publisher: Sunsoft | Side notes: 

Kirameki Star Road: Intro Club:
    Release date: 1997 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Kosodate Quiz My Angel:
    Release date: 1996 | Publisher: Namco | Side notes: 

Kosodate Quiz My Angel 2:
    Release date: 1997 | Publisher: Namco | Side notes: 

Kosodate Quiz My Angel 3:
    Release date: 1998 | Publisher: Namco | Side notes: 

Laser Quiz:
    Release date: 1995 | Publisher: CD Express | Side notes: 

Laser Quiz 2:
    Release date: 1995 | Publisher: CD Express | Side notes: 

Live Quiz Show:
    Release date: 1999 | Publisher: Andamiro | Side notes: 

Mainichi Kawaru Quiz Bangumi: Quiz 365:
    Release date: 1994 | Publisher: Nakanihon | Side notes: 

Master Boy:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Gaelco (of Barcelona, Spain) | Side notes: 

Milwaukee I.Q.:
    Release date: Early 1970s | Publisher: Modec, Inc. | Side notes: 

Miyasu Nonki No Quiz 18-kin:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: EIM | Side notes: 

Moriguchi Hiroko No Quiz De Hyuu! Hyuu! (Also known as "森口博子のクイズでヒューヒュー" in Japan):
    Release date: 1995 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Nettoh Quiz Champion:
    Release date: 1995 | Publisher: Nakanihon | Side notes: 

Nettou! Gekitou! Quiztou!!:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Namco | Side notes: 

Professor Pac-Man:
    Release date: 1983 | Publisher: Midway Games | Side notes: 

Professor Quizmaster:
    Release date: 1970 | Publisher: Mondial International, Inc. (of New York, NY) | Side notes: 

Quadro Quiz II:
    Release date: 1985 | Publisher: Status Games | Side notes: 

Quiz:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Elettronolo | Side notes: 

Quiz: Ah! My Goddess:
    Release date: 2000 | Publisher: Sega Enterprises, Ltd. (of Tokyo, Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz & Dragons: Capcom Quiz Game:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Capcom | Side notes: 

Quiz & Variety: Sukusuku Inufuku:
    Release date: 1998 | Publisher: Video System Company, Ltd. | Side notes: 

Quiz Bishoujo Senshi Sailor Moon: Chiryoku Tairyoku Toki No Un:
    Release date: 1997 | Publisher: Banpresto | Side notes: 

Quiz Channel Question:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Nakanihon | Side notes: 

Quiz Chikyu Bouei Gun:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Crayon Shin-chan:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Daisousa Sen: The Last Count Down:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: SNK | Side notes: 

Quiz De Idol! Hot Debut:
    Release date: 2000 | Publisher: Psikyo / Moss | Side notes: 

Quiz DNA No Hanran:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Face | Side notes: 

Quiz Do Re Mi Fa Grand Prix:
    Release date: 1994 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Do Re Mi Fa Grand Prix 2: Shin-Kyoku Nyuukadayo:
    Release date: 1995 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz F-1 1,2 Finish:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Irem | Side notes: 

Quiz Gakuen Paradise:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: NMK | Side notes: 

Quiz Gakumon No Susume:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Gekiretsu Scramble: Gakuen Paradise 2:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Face | Side notes: 

Quiz Ghost Hunter: The Quiz Adventure:
    Release date: 1994 | Publisher: Sega Enterprises, Ltd. (of Tokyo, Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz H.Q.:
    Release date: 1990 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Quizimodo:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Gottlieb & Company (of Chicago, IL) | Side notes: 

Quiz Jinsei Gekijoh:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Jump:
    Release date: 1983 | Publisher: Sanritsu | Side notes: 

Quiz K Tie Q Mode:
    Release date: 2002 | Publisher: Amedio | Side notes: 

Quiz King of Fighters:
    Release date: 1995 | Publisher: Saurus | Side notes: 

Quiz Kokology: Quiz & Shinri Game:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Tecmo | Side notes: 

Quiz Kokology 2: Quiz & Shinri Game:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Tecmo | Side notes: 

Quiz Magic Academy:
    Release date: 2003 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Magic Academy II:
    Release date: 2004 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Magic Academy III:
    Release date: 2005 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Magic Academy IV:
    Release date: 2007 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Magic Academy V:
    Release date: 2008 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Magic Academy VI:
    Release date: 2009 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Magic Academy VII:
    Release date: 2010 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Magic Academy VIII:
    Release date: 2011 | Publisher: Konami | Side notes: 

Quiz Magical Brain:
    Release date: 1996 | Publisher: Sega Enterprises, Ltd. (of Tokyo, Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Mahjong! Hayaku Yatteyo:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Nichibutsu (of Osaka, Japan) | Side notes: 

Quizmaster:
    Release date: 1985 | Publisher: Coinmaster | Side notes: 

Quiz Meintantei Neo-Geo: Quiz Daisousa Sen Part 2:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: SNK | Side notes: 

Quiz Mekurumeku Story:
    Release date: 1994 | Publisher: Sega Enterprises, Ltd. (of Tokyo, Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Nanairo Dreams - Nijiirochou No Kiseki:
    Release date: 1996 | Publisher: Capcom | Side notes: 

Quiz Olympic:
    Release date: 1985 | Publisher: Seoul Coin | Side notes: 

Quiz Omaeni Pipon Cho!:
    Release date: 1996 | Publisher: Data East | Side notes: 

Quiz Panicuru Fantasy:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: NMK | Side notes: 

Quiz Quest: Hime To Yuusha No Monogatari:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Rouka Ni Tattenasai:
    Release date: 1985 | Publisher: Sega Enterprises, Ltd. (of Tokyo, Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Sangokushi Chiryaku No Hasha:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Capcom | Side notes: 

Quiz Sekai Wa Show by Shobai:
    Release date: 1993 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Show:
    Release date: 1976 | Publisher: Kee Games | Side notes: 

Quiz Syukudai Wo Wasuremashita:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Sega Enterprises, Ltd. (of Tokyo, Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Theater: Mittsu No Monogatari:
    Release date: 1994 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Quiz Tonosama No Yabou:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Capcom | Side notes: 

Quiz Tonosama No Yabou 2: Zenkoku-ban:
    Release date: 1995 | Publisher: Capcom | Side notes: 

Quiz Torimonochou:
    Release date: 1990 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Quizvaders:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Bell-Fruit Manufacturing Company | Side notes: 

Seishun Quiz Colorful High School:
    Release date: 2002 | Publisher: Namco | Side notes: 

Sports World:
    Release date: 1970 | Publisher: Nutting Associates (of Mountain View, CA) | Side notes: 

SunA Quiz 6000 Academy:
    Release date: 1994 | Publisher: SunA | Side notes: 

Super Triv-Quiz:
    Release date: 1986 | Publisher: Status Games | Side notes: 

Taisen Quiz Hyhoo:
    Release date: 1987 | Publisher: Nichibutsu (of Osaka, Japan) | Side notes: 

Taisen Quiz Hyhoo 2:
    Release date: 1987 | Publisher: Nichibutsu (of Osaka, Japan) | Side notes: 

Tic Tac Quiz:
    Release date: 1976 | Publisher: Sega Enterprises, Ltd. (of Tokyo, Japan) | Side notes: 

Treble Top:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Bell-Fruit Manufacturing Company | Side notes: 

Triv-Quiz:
    Release date: 1984 | Publisher: Status Games | Side notes: 

TV Gassyuukoku Quiz Q&Q / Quiz TV Variety Show:
    Release date: 1992 | Publisher: Dynax | Side notes: 

Ultra Quiz:
    Release date: 1983 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

Vision Quest:
    Release date: 1991 | Publisher: Nova | Side notes: LaserDisc -based game also known as Revelations .

Wizz Quiz:
    Release date: 1985 | Publisher: Zilec-Zenitone | Side notes: 

Yuuyu no Quiz de GO! GO!:
    Release date: 1990 | Publisher: Taito (of Japan) | Side notes: 

The 4th Coming:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (isometric) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 1999 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Now known as T4C v2

AdventureQuest 3D:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2016 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Steam

AdventureQuest Worlds:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser-based

Age of Conan:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: This game features a combo based combat system.

Age of Wulin:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Martial Arts , Wuxia (fantasy) | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2013 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Set in ancient China

AIKA Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2009 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Aion:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Albion Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D Isometric | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play with optional subscription model | Launched: 2017 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: 

Allods Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2010 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: 

Anarchy Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2001 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Angels Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2006 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Downloadable client (Windows only)

ArcheAge:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2013 | Closed: 2024 | Distribution:  | Notes: Open-sandbox player built world, large-scale crafting interactions (building own ship to sail with, etc.)

Argentum Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 1999 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Ashen Empires:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (isometric) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2002 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Housing, Guilds, 3 Expansions, Downloadable client (Windows only)

Asheron's Call:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 1999 | Closed: 2017 [ 1 ] | Distribution:  | Notes: Has player housing

Asheron's Call 2:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2002 | Closed: 2005, 2017 [ 2 ] | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Ashes of Creation:
    Status: Development | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: TBA | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Astonia III:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2001 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Originally pay-to-play until 2014 when the official servers shut down and the creator released the source code; thus, multiple fan-made communities emerged.

Atlantica Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Turn-based strategy

Aura Kingdom:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2014 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Battle of the Immortals:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2010 | Closed: 2018 | Distribution:  | Notes: Battle of the Immortals features an expansive pet system, a mount upgrade system, and six playable classes.

Battlestar Galactica Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed: 2019 | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser-based, Battlestar Galactica license

Black Desert Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Freemium (Asia), Buy-to-play (EU/NA) | Launched: 2014 (Korea) 2016 (EU/NA) | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Open-sandbox player built world - Manual aim action combat

Blade & Soul:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, martial arts | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2012 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Manual aim action combat (within melee/short ranged combat)

Blood Wars:
    Status: Active | Graphics: Text-based | Setting: Post-apocalyptic | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2006 | Closed:  | Distribution: Browser | Notes: 

Boundless:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Space fantasy | Business model: Buy-to-play (EU/NA) | Launched: 2018 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Open-sandbox player built worlds, crafting, gear forging, portals, meteors, mining, planet rentals. [ 3 ] [ circular reference ]

Cabal Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2005 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Camelot Unchained:
    Status: Development | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, Mythology ( Arthurian )( Celtic )( Norse ) | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2020 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Champions of Regnum:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2007 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Originally Regnum Online

Champions Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Superheroes | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2009 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

City of Heroes:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Superheroes | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2004 | Closed: 2012 | Distribution:  | Notes: Formerly pay-to-play

City of Villains:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Superheroes | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2005 | Closed: 2012 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Clan Lord:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay for account; free-to-play | Launched: 1998 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Downloadable client for Windows & Mac

Clone Wars Adventures:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Sci-fi | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2010 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: Star Wars

Dark Age of Camelot:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Mythology ( Arthurian , Celtic , and Norse ) | Business model: Pay-to-play; Free-to-play (2019) | Launched: 2001 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Dark Ages:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Mythology ( Celtic ) | Business model: Pay for account; free-to-play | Launched: 1999 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Dark and Light:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2006 | Closed: 2008 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Darkeden:
    Status: South Korea | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Horror | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2002 | Closed: 2018 (West) | Distribution: Standalone & Steam | Notes: Western servers closed in 2018, still running in South Korea.

Darkfall:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2009 | Closed: 2012 | Distribution:  | Notes: Independent development continues as Darkfall: New Dawn and Rise of Agon .

Darkfall Unholy Wars:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2013 | Closed: 2016 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

DarkSpace:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2001 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Open source

DC Universe Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Superheroes | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Base game is free-to-play with restrictions

Dead Frontier:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Horror | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Pay for extras, Browser-based

Defiance:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Post-apocalyptic | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2013 | Closed: 2021 | Distribution:  | Notes: Tie-in to the Syfy show of the same name

Digimon Battle Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2002 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Western servers closed in 2013. Western servers re-opened in 2022.

Digimon Masters:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2009 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: 

Dofus:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (isometric) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Downloadable client (Windows, Mac, Linux) Tactical combat

Domain of Heroes:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: Text-based | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2017 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Dragon Ball Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2010 | Closed: 2013 | Distribution:  | Notes: Downloadable client (Windows, Mac, Linux) Tactical combat

Dragon Nest:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2010 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Manual aim action combat

Dragon Oath:
    Status: China | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Mythology (Chinese) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Based on the novel Demi-Gods and Semi-Devils by Jin Yong

Dragon Quest X Online:
    Status: Japan | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2012 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Multiplatform: Wii , Wii U

Dragon Saga:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2009 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Re-branded from "Dragonica" in 2010.

Dragon's Prophet:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2013 | Closed: 2015 (US) 2020 (EU) 2020 (Taiwan) | Distribution:  | Notes: Capture, train and ride dragons, fight with them

Drakensang Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2012 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Uses downloadable client and launcher

Dungeons & Dragons Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2006 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: D&D 3.5 Edition ruleset

Dynasty Warriors Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Historical fantasy (China), martial arts | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2006 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: Hack and slash

Earth and Beyond:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2002 | Closed: 2004 | Distribution:  | Notes: Space vehicle piloting, trading, leveling

Echo of Soul:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2013 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Eden Eternal:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2010 | Closed: 2021 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

The Elder Scrolls Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Buy-to-play with optional subscription model | Launched: 2014 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Manual aim action combat. Formerly a subscription based, but changed to buy-to-play on 2015-03-17.

Elsword:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (isometric) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Potential sequel to GC

Ember Sword:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play, play-to-earn | Launched: 2024 (Early access) | Closed: 2025 | Distribution: Standalone & Browser | Notes: Servers shut down in May 2025. [ 4 ]

Emil Chronicle Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2005 | Closed: 2010 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Empire of Sports:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Modern sports | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2016 | Distribution:  | Notes: Sports-based

Empire & State:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser-based political strategy MMORPG

Entropia Universe:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

eRepublik:
    Status: Active | Graphics: Text-based | Setting: Real world simulation | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution: Browser | Notes: 

Ether Saga Odyssey:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy (Chinese) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2009 | Closed: 2016 | Distribution: Standalone Launcher | Notes: 

EVE Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Space vehicle piloting, trading, and business management

EverQuest:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 1999 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Formerly pay-to-play

EverQuest II:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Sequel to EverQuest

Elyon (video game):
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: F2P | Launched: 2021 | Closed: 2022 | Distribution: Steam/Launcher | Notes: Similar to Tera , Manual Action Combat

Face of Mankind:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2009 | Closed: 2015 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Fighting Legends Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2001 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Fallen Earth:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Post-apocalyptic | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2009 | Closed: 2019 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Fantage:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2018 | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser-based

Fantasy Earth Zero:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2006 | Closed: 2020 | Distribution:  | Notes: 50vs50 PvP-oriented gameplay

Fantasy Westward Journey:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy (Chinese) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Inspired by Journey to the West

Fiesta Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Publisher: Gamigo

Final Fantasy XI:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2002 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Final Fantasy XIV (original):
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2010 | Closed: 2012 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Final Fantasy XIV (A Realm Reborn):
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2013 | Closed:  | Distribution: Standalone & Steam | Notes: Relaunch of Final Fantasy XIV . Now known as Final Fantasy XIV: Dawntrail with latest the expansion. Free to play until level 70.

Firefall:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2014 | Closed: 2017 | Distribution:  | Notes: First-person/third-person shooter

Flyff:
    Status: 13 countries | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2005 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Fragoria:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser-based

Free Realms:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2009 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Gekkeiju Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed: 2020 | Distribution:  | Notes: Anime-based. New version in 2010 with "" Occulus Rift "" support

GemStone IV:
    Status: Active | Graphics: Text-based | Setting: Fantasy, MUD | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 1988-04 (2003-11) | Closed:  | Distribution: Browser | Notes: Evolved from GemStone (1988) through development and renaming. Pay-to-play, with free-to-play option since March 2015.

GodsWar Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Mythology (Greek) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2009 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Granado Espada:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Historical fantasy ( Age of Exploration ) | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Grand Chase:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2003, 2021 (Relaunch) | Closed: 2015 | Distribution: Launcher (original run), Steam (relaunch) | Notes: Client download required. Relaunched on Steam as "Grand Chase: Classic"

Guild Wars:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Buy-to-play | Launched: 2005 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: 

Guild Wars 2:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play / Buy-to-play | Launched: 2012 | Closed:  | Distribution: Launcher & Steam | Notes: Open world, fantasy, instances, Manual aim action combat (guided, optional); became free to play, 4 expansions, Sequel to Guild Wars

Hello Kitty Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Cartoon | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2009 | Closed: 2017 | Distribution:  | Notes: Client download required.

Hero Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Mythology (Chinese) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2006 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Illyriad:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser Based

Infantry Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 1999 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Shut down 2012, relaunched by community.

Istaria: Chronicles of the Gifted:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play / Pay-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Name changed from Horizons

Jade Dynasty:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, martial arts | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2018 | Distribution:  | Notes: Last expansion in 2013

Knight Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: 

LaTale:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (side-scrolling) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2009 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

The Legend of Ares:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2009 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

The Legend of Mir 2:
    Status: China South Korea | Graphics: 2D (sprite-based) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2001 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: European and North American servers closed 2009 and 2012.

The Legend of Mir 3:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D (sprite-based) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2004 | Closed: 2012 | Distribution:  | Notes: Sequel to The Legend of Mir 2

Lineage:
    Status: Asia | Graphics: 2D (sprite-based) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 1998 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: North American servers shut down on 2011-06-29.

Lineage II:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Sequel to Lineage , formerly pay-to-play until the 2011 expansion

The Lord of the Rings Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2007 | Closed:  | Distribution: Standalone & Steam | Notes: Formerly pay-to-play

Lost Ark:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D Isometric | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play with optional subscription model | Launched: 2019 (Korea) 2022 (Global) | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: 

Love:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2010 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Builder

Mabinogi:
    Status: East Asia North America | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, mythology (Welsh) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: 

MapleStory:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (side-scrolling) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution: Launcher Steam (GMS only) | Notes: 

MapleStory 2:
    Status: China South Korea | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2015 | Closed: 2020 | Distribution:  | Notes: Sequel to MapleStory - servers still active in South Korea and China as of 05-27-2020.

Marvel Heroes:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Superheroes | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2013 | Closed: 2017 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Master of Epic:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2005 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Has not been released outside of Japan

The Matrix Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2005 | Closed: 2009 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Meridian 59:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2.5D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 1996 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Formerly pay-to-play

Metin2:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Publisher: Gameforge

Minions of Mirth:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2005 | Closed: 2017 [ 5 ] | Distribution:  | Notes: 

MonsterMMORPG:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2009 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser-based

Mortal Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2010 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Formerly pay-to-play

Mortal Online 2:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Buy-to-play | Launched: 2022 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: 

MU Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2001 (Korea)  2003 (Global) | Closed:  | Distribution: Browser | Notes: Downloable client (only Windows)

Myst Online: Uru Live:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Ancient fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Online version of Uru: Ages Beyond Myst ; Open source; formerly pay-to-play; multiplayer adventure game; customizable homeworld; development led by the game's community

Mythos:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Neocron:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Cyberpunk | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2002 | Closed: 2004 | Distribution:  | Notes: FPS -style gameplay

Neocron 2: Beyond Dome of York:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Cyberpunk | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: FPS -style gameplay, second installment run by the game's community

NEStalgia:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Buy-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed: 2018 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Neverwinter:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2013 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Manual aim action combat

New World:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Buy-to-play | Launched: 2021 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Publisher: Amazon Games

Nexus: The Kingdom of the Winds:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (sprite-based; overhead) | Setting: Mythology (Korean) | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 1996 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Old School RuneScape:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Freemium, but with bulk of content pay-to-play | Launched: 2013 | Closed:  | Distribution: Standalone & Steam | Notes: Java-based fork of the 2007 version of RuneScape 2 , started in 2013

Omerta:
    Status: Active | Graphics: Text-based | Setting: Crime (mafia) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution: Browser | Notes: Mafia-themed

Order and Chaos Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed: 2023 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Order & Chaos 2: Redemption:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2015 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Pantheon: Rise of the Fallen:
    Status: Development | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model:  | Launched: TBA | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Spiritual successor to the original EverQuest

Parallel Kingdom:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2016 | Distribution: iOS, Android | Notes: 

Pardus:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser-based, space war and trading game

Perfect World:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy (Chinese) | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2005 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Latest expansion in 2018

Pax Dei:
    Status: Development | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model:  | Launched: TBA | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Perpetuum [ 6 ] [ 7 ]:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction (Mech) | Business model: Free | Launched: 2010 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Persistent sandbox MMORPG. [ 8 ]

Phantasy Star Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Buy-to-play | Launched: 2000 | Closed: 2010 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Phantasy Star Online 2:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2012 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Phoenix Dynasty Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2010 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Pirate101:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, kids | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2012 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Pirate game, kid-safe chat

Pirates of the Burning Sea:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Historical (maritime) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Vision Online Games takeover 2019

Pirates of the Caribbean Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Adventure | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2013 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

PlaneShift:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2002 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Open source

Playmobil WORLD:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser-based

Poptropica:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (side-scrolling) | Setting: Cartoon, kids | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2007 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Browser-based, no downloadable client required

Prime World:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D (isometric) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2014 | Closed: 2021 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Priston Tale:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2001 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Priston Tale 2:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2013 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Throne and Liberty:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model:  | Launched: 2024 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Sequel to Lineage II , previously announced as Lineage Eternal and Lineage III

Puppet Guardian:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D (isometric; adventure) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Puzzle Pirates:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Ragnarok Online:
    Status: CIS countries North America | Graphics: 2D/3D [ 9 ] | Setting: Fantasy, mythology (Norse/mixed) | Business model: Freemium/Pay-to-play (Depending on the server) | Launched: 2002 | Closed: 2018 (Europe) 2021 (MSP) | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Servers shut down in most of Europe 2018, excluding CIS countries . [ 10 ] Malaysia, Singapore, Philippines (MSP) server closed 2021. [ 11 ]

Ragnarok Online 2:
    Status: CIS countries North America | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2012 | Closed: 2014 (Korea) 2014 (SEA) 2018 (Europe) | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Sequel to Ragnarok Online . Servers shut down in South Korea, Southeast Asia, and most of Europe excluding CIS countries . [ 10 ]

Ran Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Campus fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2004 | Closed: 2021 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Rappelz:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2006 | Closed: 2016 (SEA) | Distribution:  | Notes: Servers active in Europe, North America, MENA, Japan, and Korea. SEA server closed 2016.

Realm of the Mad God:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Browser-based

The Realm Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (sprite-based) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 1996 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Buy-to-play until 2018-06-01

Red Stone:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Requiem: Memento Mori:
    Status: North America South Korea | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Dark fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

RF Online:
    Status: Europe North America South Korea | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2006 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Rift:
    Status: Europe North America | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Formerly pay-to-play

Rohan: Blood Feud:
    Status: East Asia, SEA North America | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

ROSE Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2005 | Closed: 2019 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Royal Quest:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D (isometric) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2015 | Closed: 2020 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Rubies of Eventide:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed: 2009 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Runes of Magic:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2009 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Publisher: Gameforge

RuneScape:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Freemium, but with bulk of content pay-to-play | Launched: 2001 | Closed:  | Distribution: Standalone & Steam | Notes: RuneScape has been developed continuously since 2001. It is sometimes referred to as RuneScape 3 to distinguish it from Old School RuneScape , which was forked from its 2007 version in 2013.

Rusty Hearts:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: Hack and slash

Ryzom:
    Status: Europe North America | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Free-to-play (up to level 125), pay-to-play (to max level). Open source

Salem:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Historical (17th century) fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2012 | Closed:  | Distribution: Standalone | Notes: Crafting-based

Sangokushi Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Historical (Chinese) | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2010 | Distribution:  | Notes: Part of the Romance of the Three Kingdoms series by Koei

Scions of Fate:
    Status: East Asia Indonesia USA | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2005 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Korean name: Yulgang .

Seal Online:
    Status: East Asia USA | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

The Secret World:
    Status: Europe North America | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Modern | Business model: Buy-to-play | Launched: 2012 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Formerly pay-to-play

Shadowbane:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed: 2009 | Distribution:  | Notes: Switched to "free-to-play" on 2006-03-15, supported by ads

Shin Megami Tensei: Imagine:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2016 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Shot-Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Sports (golf) | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Shroud of the Avatar: Forsaken Virtues:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2018 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Spiritual successor to the Ultima series [ citation needed ]

Silkroad Online:
    Status: China Europe USA | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2005 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Servers in China, Europe and USA. [ 12 ]

Skyforge:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy (Mythic/Sci-fi) | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2015 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Russian-based developers. Manual aim action combat

Soul of the Ultimate Nation:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2013 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Space Heroes Universe!:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Kids | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2011 | Closed: 2015 | Distribution:  | Notes: Originally Little Space Heroes

Spiral Knights:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2009 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam & Standalone | Notes: Java

StarQuest Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: Downloadable client (Windows)

Star Trek Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2010 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Switched to "free-to-play" on 2012-01-17

Star Wars Combine:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 1998 | Closed:  | Distribution: Browser | Notes: Spiritual sequel of a mid-90s Internet game called Star Wars Simulation

Star Wars Galaxies:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed: 2011 | Distribution:  | Notes: First Star Wars MMORPG, using a "sandbox" approach with a player-driven economy.

Star Wars: The Old Republic:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Freemium with optional subscription model | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution: Standalone & Steam | Notes: Spiritual sequel of 2003's Game of the year Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic , formerly pay-to-play

Stellar Dawn:
    Status: Terminated | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model:  | Launched: N/A | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Development started back in 2006 as MechScape (scrapped in 2009). In 2010 Stellar Dawn was announced, in March 2012 Jagex paused development. Paused indefinitely 2015.

Tabula Rasa:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2009 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

A Tale in the Desert:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Mythology (Egyptian) | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution: Standalone | Notes: Non-combat-oriented RPG

Tales of Pirates:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy (Maritime) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2016 | Distribution:  | Notes: During 2010 server data was transferred to a revamped client called Tales of Pirates II

TERA: Rising:
    Status: Console only | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam, consoles | Notes: Manual aim action combat (True Action combat)

Terra:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 1996 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

The Chronicles of Spellborn:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play / Pay-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2010 | Distribution: Standalone | Notes: 

Tibia:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (sprite-based; overhead) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 1997 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Downloadable client (Windows, Linux).

Toontown Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, Cartoon | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2003 | Closed: 2013 | Distribution:  | Notes: Designed for families, mostly targeted towards children.

Toontown Rewritten:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, Cartoon | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2014 | Closed:  | Distribution: Standalone | Notes: Fan-made revival of Toontown Online , created using publicly available downloads and information.

Torn:
    Status: Active | Graphics: Text | Setting: Crime (mafia) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution: Browser | Notes: Mafia-themed

Tower of Fantasy:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2021 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam, PC Launcher, iOS, Android, PlayStation | Notes: Open world, action combat

Trickster Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D (isometric; adventure) | Setting: Fantasy, Mythology (Greek/mixed) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Trove:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, Cartoon | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2013 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Twelve Sky:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2010 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Twelve Sky 2:
    Status: East Asia, SEA Europe North America | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Ultima Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D/3D Isometric | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Subscription | Launched: 1997 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: The term MMORPG was first coined by Ultima Online creator Richard Garriott in 1997. [ 13 ]

Uncharted Waters Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Historical (maritime) | Business model: Free-to-play (on international server) | Launched: 2005 (Japan) 2010 (West) | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Underlight:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2.5D | Setting: Fantasy (Dream) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 1998 | Closed:  | Distribution: Standalone & Steam | Notes: Original servers were shut down in December 2006. Re-launched in September 2014 by KoiWare.

Vanguard: Saga of Heroes:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Pay-to-play | Launched: 2007 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Vendetta Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution: Cross-platform | Notes: Space vehicle piloting and twitch-based interface

Villagers & Heroes:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution: Cross-platform | Notes: 

Vindictus:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy (Celtic) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2010 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Manual aim action combat

Voyage Century Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Historical (maritime) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2006 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Many localised language versions shut down in 2010s: German, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Turkish.

Wakfu:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 2D (isometric) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2012 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Downloadable client (Windows, Mac, Linux). Tactical combat.

Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2013 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

WildStar:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, Science fiction | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2014 | Closed: 2018 | Distribution:  | Notes: Manual aim action combat (telegraphed). Became free-to-play on 2015-09-29

With Your Destiny:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy (Scandinavian) | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2003 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Wizard101:
    Status: Australasia Europe North America | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy, kids | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2015 (China & Taiwan) | Distribution:  | Notes: Wizard game with cards, kid-safe chat. China & Taiwan servers shut down late 2015.

Wizardry Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2013 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: Based on Wizardry series

WonderKing Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D (side-scrolling) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2006 | Closed: 2011 [ 14 ] | Distribution:  | Notes: 

Wonderland Online:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D (special) | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2019 | Distribution:  | Notes: Anime/Manga based

World of the Living Dead:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Survival strategy | Business model: Free-to-play | Launched: 2014 | Closed: 2014 | Distribution:  | Notes: Map-Based Survival Game with PvP, Factions, Customization, Upgrades & Crafting.

World of Warcraft:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Subscription | Launched: 2004 | Closed:  | Distribution: Launcher | Notes: Free-to-play until level 20

Wurm Online:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2006 | Closed:  | Distribution:  | Notes: Sandbox game with hundreds of skills, multiple kingdoms, and a deep crafting system.

Wynncraft:
    Status: Active | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Fantasy | Business model: Platform is buy-to-play, server is free-to-play | Launched: 2013 | Closed:  | Distribution: Minecraft | Notes: Inspired by Runescape. Includes completing quests, joining guilds, completing dungeons and raids, and fighting bosses

Xsyon:
    Status: Early access | Graphics: 3D | Setting: Apocalyptic fantasy | Business model: Buy-to-play [ 15 ] [ 16 ] | Launched: 2011 | Closed:  | Distribution: Steam | Notes: Apocalyptic fantasy sandbox. Early access since 2011. Pay-to-play 2012–2015, freemium 2012–2014.

Zhengtu:
    Status: Closed | Graphics: 2D | Setting: Mythology (Chinese) | Business model: Freemium | Launched: 2008 | Closed: 2018 | Distribution:  | Notes: 

MUD1:
    Founded: 1978 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Roy Trubshaw , Richard Bartle | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: Essex | Codebase: MUDDL | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: MUDDL | Notes: The first MUD; see also British Legends

MAD:
    Founded: 1984 | Closed: 1986 | Business model: Free | Developer: Bruno Chabrier, Vincent Lextrait | Publisher: BITNET | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Island of Kesmai:
    Founded: 1985 | Closed: 2000 | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Kesmai | Publisher: CompuServe | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , roguelike | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: See also Legends of Kesmai

MUD2:
    Founded: 1985 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Richard Bartle , Roy Trubshaw , Simon Dally | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: Essex | Codebase: MUDDLE | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: Successor to/heavily updated version of MUD1

AberMUD:
    Founded: 1987 | Closed: 1987 | Business model: Free | Developer: Alan Cox , Richard Acott, Jim Finnis, Leon Thrane | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: AberMUD | Codebase: AberMUD | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: AberMUD | Notes: The first AberMUD

British Legends:
    Founded: 1987 | Closed: 1999 | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Roy Trubshaw , Richard Bartle | Publisher: CompuServe | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: Essex | Codebase: MUDDL | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: Commercial version of MUD1

GemStone:
    Founded: 1988 | Closed:  | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Simutronics | Publisher: GEnie , AOL , independent | Setting: High fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Avalon:
    Founded: 1989 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Yehuda Simmons | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Politics, player versus player , roleplaying | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: Pioneered plotted quests.

TinyMUD:
    Founded: 1989 | Closed: 1990 | Business model: Free | Developer: James Aspnes | Publisher:  | Setting: Cross-genre | Style: Social | Family: MU* | Codebase: TinyMUD | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: TinyMUD | Notes: 

Genesis LPMud:
    Founded: 1989 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Lars Pensjö , Carl Hallén, Jakob Hallén, Lennart Augustsson , Johan Andersson, Anders Chrigström, Ronny Wikh, Stas van der Schaaf, Tony Elmroth, Dave Richards, Thornsten Lockert, Felix Croes et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Style: Roleplaying | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LPMud , CD | Mudlib: CD | Contri­butions: LPMud , CD gamedriver and mudlib | Notes: The first LPMud

TinyTIM:
    Founded: 1990 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Jason Scott Sadofsky et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Cross-genre | Style: Social | Family: MU* | Codebase: TinyMUD , MUSH | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

BatMUD:
    Founded: 1990 | Closed:  | Business model: Pay for perks | Developer: B.A.T. ry | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , player versus player | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LPMud | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

FurryMUCK:
    Founded: 1990 | Closed:  | Business model: Donation-supported | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Furry | Style: Social , roleplaying | Family: MU* | Codebase: TinyMUCK | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

LambdaMOO:
    Founded: 1990 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Pavel Curtis et al. | Publisher: Xerox PARC , independent | Setting: Cross-genre | Style: Social | Family: MU* | Codebase: MOO | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: LambdaCore | Notes: 

MicroMUSE:
    Founded: 1990 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Cross-genre | Style: Educational , social | Family: MU* | Codebase: MUSH , TinyMUSE | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: TinyMUSE | Notes: Arguably first educational MUD

Lost Souls:
    Founded: 1990 | Closed:  | Business model: Pay for perks | Developer: Michael Rice, Rebecca Willey, Matthew Sheahan et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , roleplaying | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LPMud 2.4.5 , LPMud 3.1.2 , Amylaar , LDMud | Mudlib: Ain Soph | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

TubMUD:
    Founded: 1990 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , roleplaying | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LPMud 2.4.5 , Amylaar , LDMud | Mudlib: Tublib | Contri­butions:  | Notes: First MUD hosted in Germany

Ancient Anguish:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed:  | Business model: Donation-supported | Developer: Balz Meierhans, Olivier Maquelin et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: LPMud | Codebase: Amylaar | Mudlib: Loch Ness | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Armageddon:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed:  | Business model: Donation-supported , freebie marketing | Developer: Dan Brumleve, Nasri Hajj, Santiago Zorzopulos, Cat Rambo et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Post-apocalyptic low fantasy | Style: Roleplaying | Family: DikuMUD | Codebase: DikuMUD | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

DikuMUD:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed: 1991 | Business model: Free | Developer: Sebastian Hammer, Michael Seifert, Hans Henrik Staerfeldt, Tom Madsen, Katja Nyboe | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: DikuMUD | Codebase: DikuMUD | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: DikuMUD | Notes: Refers to the first DikuMUD at freja.diku.dk 4000

Discworld MUD:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: David Bennett, Craig Richmond, Sean A. Reith, Evan Scott, Derek Harding, Jake Greenland et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Discworld | Style: Hack and slash , roleplaying , social | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LPMud , MudOS , FluffOS | Mudlib: Discworld | Contri­butions: Discworld mudlib , FluffOS | Notes: 

Dragon's Gate:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed: 2006 | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Darrin Hyrup | Publisher: GEnie , AOL , Mythic Realms, independent | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , roleplaying | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Elendor:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Lord of the Rings | Style: Roleplaying , social | Family: MU* | Codebase: MUSH | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

PernMUSH:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed: 2014 | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Pern | Style: Roleplaying , social | Family: MU* | Codebase: MUSH | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Star Wars MUSH:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Star Wars | Style: Roleplaying , social | Family: MU* | Codebase: MUSH | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Viking Mud:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Multi-user dungeon , social | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LPMud , DGD | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Xyllomer:
    Founded: 1991 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Roleplaying | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LPMud , DGD | Mudlib: CD | Contri­butions:  | Notes: First public DGD MUD

Genocide:
    Founded: 1992 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Player versus player | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LPMud , MudOS , Amylaar | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: First " pure PK " MUD

AmberMUSH:
    Founded: 1992 | Closed: 2009 | Business model: Free | Developer: Jennifer Smith et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Amber | Style: Roleplaying | Family: MU* | Codebase: TinyMUSH | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Infinity (LPMud):
    Founded: 1992 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Peter William Friedman, Bill Mackiewicz et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Cross-genre | Style: Hack and slash , social , player versus player | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LPMud 3.1.2 , LDMud | Mudlib: LPMud 2.4.5 | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

3Kingdoms:
    Founded: 1992 | Closed:  | Business model: Pay for perks | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Cross-genre | Style: Hack and slash | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LDMud | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

The Shadow of Yserbius:
    Founded: 1992 | Closed: 1996 | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Sierra On-Line | Publisher: The Sierra Network , The ImagiNation Network , AOL | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , graphical | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

MorgenGrauen:
    Founded: 1992 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: LPMud | Codebase: LDMud | Mudlib: MorgenGrauen | Contri­butions: MorgenGrauen Mudlib | Notes: 

Diversity University:
    Founded: 1993 | Closed: 2006 | Business model: Free | Developer: Jeanne McWhorter et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Modern | Style: Educational | Family: MU* | Codebase: MOO | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: First educational MOO, arguably first educational MUD

BioMOO:
    Founded: 1993 | Closed: 2001 | Business model: Free | Developer: Gustavo Glusman, Jaime Prilusky et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Modern | Style: Educational | Family: MU* | Codebase: MOO | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: File Utilities Package, intermoo GNA Network | Notes: 

Infinity (AberMUD):
    Founded: 1993 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: AberMUD | Codebase: AberMUD | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

BayMOO:
    Founded: 1993 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Tim Keanini  et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Modern | Style: Social , educational | Family: MU* | Codebase: MOO | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

MediaMOO:
    Founded: 1993 | Closed: 2000 | Business model: Free | Developer: Amy S. Bruckman et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Modern | Style: Educational | Family: MU* | Codebase: MOO | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: Mirror archived at Clemson University

DragonSpires:
    Founded: 1994 | Closed: 1997 | Business model: Pay for perks | Developer: Dragon's Eye Productions | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Social , roleplaying , graphical | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

LegendMUD:
    Founded: 1994 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Raph Koster , Kristen Koster, Rick Delashmit, Sherry Delashmit et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Historical fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: DikuMUD | Codebase: DikuMUD | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Legends of Terris:
    Founded: 1994 | Closed:  | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Paul Barnett , Doug Goldner, Online Games Company | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , roleplaying | Family:  | Codebase: Horizon Engine | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Realms of Despair:
    Founded: 1994 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Derek Snider et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: DikuMUD | Codebase: Merc 2 , SMAUG | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: SMAUG | Notes: 

LinguaMOO:
    Founded: 1995 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Cynthia Haynes, Jan Rune Holmevik et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Modern | Style: Educational | Family: MU* | Codebase: MOO | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

ATHEMOO:
    Founded: 1995 | Closed: 2010 | Business model: Free | Developer: Juli Burk et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Modern | Style: Educational , theatrical | Family: MU* | Codebase: MOO | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

The Ruins of Cawdor:
    Founded: 1995 | Closed: 1996 | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Sierra On-Line | Publisher: The Sierra Network , The ImagiNation Network , AOL | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , graphical | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

DragonRealms:
    Founded: 1996 | Closed:  | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Simutronics | Publisher: GEnie , AOL , CompuServe , Prodigy , Microsoft Gaming Zone , independent | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , roleplaying , player versus player | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

MOOSE Crossing:
    Founded: 1996 | Closed: 2007 | Business model: Free | Developer: Amy S. Bruckman et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Modern | Style: Educational | Family: MU* | Codebase: MOO | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Legends of Kesmai:
    Founded: 1996 | Closed: 2000 | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Kesmai | Publisher: independent, AOL , GameStorm , EA | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , graphical , roguelike | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: Tile-graphics version of Island of Kesmai

TorilMUD:
    Founded: 1996 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Kris Kortright et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Forgotten Realms | Style: Hack and slash | Family: DikuMUD | Codebase: Sequent | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Achaea, Dreams of Divine Lands:
    Founded: 1997 | Closed:  | Business model: Pay for perks , subscription | Developer: Iron Realms Entertainment | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Roleplaying , Player versus player | Family:  | Codebase: Rapture | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: ATCP | Notes: 

The Eternal City:
    Founded: 1996 | Closed:  | Business model: Free, subscription | Developer: Three Seas, LLC | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy / Roman Theme | Style: Roleplaying , Player versus player | Family:  | Codebase: ColdC | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Alter Aeon:
    Founded: 1997 | Closed:  | Business model: Pay for perks | Developer: Dennis Towne et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Medieval fantasy | Style: Hack and slash | Family: DikuMUD | Codebase: DentinMUD | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

ifMUD:
    Founded: 1997 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Liza Daly et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Interactive fiction | Style: Social | Family: MU* | Codebase: PerlMUD | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: Hosts the XYZZY Awards | Notes: 

Darkness Falls: The Crusade:
    Founded: 1999 | Closed: 2006 | Business model: Subscription | Developer: Mythic Entertainment | Publisher: GameStorm , AOL , Centropolis Entertainment | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Player versus player | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

Legacy of the Sith:
    Founded: 2001 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Star Wars | Style: Hack and slash , Politics, player versus player , roleplaying , | Family: DikuMUD | Codebase: SWR FotE | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: Oldest SWR MUD still running

Wyvern:
    Founded: 2001 | Closed: 2013 | Business model: Free | Developer: Cabochon Inc. | Publisher:  | Setting: Fantasy | Style: Hack and slash , graphical , roguelike | Family:  | Codebase:  | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

God Wars II:
    Founded: 2002 | Closed:  | Business model: Free | Developer: Richard Woolcock et al. | Publisher:  | Setting: Dark fantasy | Style: Player versus player | Family:  | Codebase: Gladiator Pits II | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions: Gladiator Pits II, MSDP | Notes: 

HellMOO:
    Founded: 2003 | Closed: 2022 | Business model: Free | Developer:  | Publisher:  | Setting: Post-apocalyptic | Style: player versus player | Family: MU* | Codebase: MOO | Mudlib:  | Contri­butions:  | Notes: 

== List of roguelike games ==:
    The following is a list of roguelike games that are generally considered to hold true to the Berlin Interpretation of a "roguelike".

== Hybrid roguelikes ==:
    These are games that feature elements of roguelike games but not necessarily all of the features as defined by the Berlin Interpretation. Terms like "hybrid roguelike", "roguelike-like", "rogue-lite", and "procedural death labyrinth" are used to distinguish them from traditional roguelike games. In most cases, hybrids feature common elements like procedural level generation, randomized item and adversary placement, and permadeath.

1978:
    Last:  | Title: Beneath Apple Manor | Developer: Don Worth | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: APPII | Notes: One of the earliest commercial Apple II games. It predates Rogue and was much simpler, but supported a low-resolution graphical display in addition to the text version . It was ported to the IBM PC in 1983. [ 1 ]

1979:
    Last:  | Title: DUNGEON | Developer: Brian Sawyer | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: PET | Notes: Published in Cursor issue 15. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ]

1980:
    Last:  | Title: Rogue | Developer: Michael Toy, others | Setting: Fantasy | Platform:  | Notes: Classic dungeon crawler with simple ASCII graphics, which inspired the genre as a whole and for which the genre is named.

1982:
    Last:  | Title: Nemesis | Developer: Michael Q. Hiller & Michael A. Pagels | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: CP/M | Notes: Featured real-time gameplay and fog of war . Though levels are not randomly generated, the game does implement permadeath .

1983:
    Last:  | Title: Advanced Dungeons & Dragons: Treasure of Tarmin | Developer: Mattel Electronics | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: INT | Notes: 

1984:
    Last:  | Title: Castle Adventure | Developer: Kevin Bales | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: DOS | Notes: Dungeon crawl/castle escape.

1985:
    Last: 1987 | Title: Dungeon of Doom, The | Developer: John Raymonds | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: MAC | Notes: Released commercially in 1987 as The Dungeon Revealed .

1986:
    Last: 1987 | Title: Larn | Developer: Noah Morgan, Phil Cordier | Setting: Fantasy | Platform:  | Notes: Original version of Larn remains part of the NetBSD games collection. [ 6 ]

1987:
    Last: 2023 | Title: NetHack | Developer: The NetHack DevTeam | Setting: Fantasy | Platform:  | Notes: Descendant of Hack which has spawned many large and complex variant trees.

1988:
    Last:  | Title: Moraff's Revenge | Developer: Steve Moraff | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: DOS | Notes: A 3D, first-person perspective role-playing video game .

1989:
    Last:  | Title: Castle of the Winds | Developer: SaadaSoft | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: WIN3X | Notes: 

1990:
    Last:  | Title: Dragon Crystal | Developer: Sega | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: GG, SMS | Notes: 

1991:
    Last:  | Title: Cave Noire | Developer: Konami | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: GB | Notes: Simplistic dungeon crawler with random room placement, loot and monsters.

1992:
    Last:  | Title: Mission Thunderbolt | Developer: Dave Scheifler , John Calhoun | Setting: Futuristic | Platform: DEC, MAC, WIN | Notes: 

1993:
    Last:  | Title: Torneko's Great Adventure: Mystery Dungeon | Developer: Chunsoft | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: SNES | Notes: The first game in Chunsoft's popular Mystery Dungeon series, inspired by Rogue ' s gameplay.

1994:
    Last: 2018 | Title: Ancient Domains of Mystery | Developer: Thomas Biskup | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: AMI, BEOS, DOS, LIN, OS2, OSX, WIN | Notes: 

1996:
    Last: 2011 | Title: Shiren the Wanderer GB: Monster of Moonlight Village | Developer: Chunsoft | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: GB, WIN, DROID | Notes: Part of Chunsoft's Mystery Dungeon series. Released only in Japan.

1997:
    Last: 1999 | Title: Chocobo's Mysterious Dungeon | Developer: Square | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: PS1, WS | Notes: Part of Chunsoft's Mystery Dungeon series. Released only in Japan.

1998:
    Last: 2008 | Title: Tales (or Troubles) of Middle Earth | Developer: DarkGod , others | Setting: Fantasy | Platform:  | Notes: Based on the PernBand variant of Angband , and thus on The Lord of the Rings . The original author no longer maintains it, but a separate maintenance branch repository exists. [ 8 ]

1999:
    Last:  | Title: Master Blaze | Developer: Nihon Create | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: WIN | Notes: 

2000:
    Last: 2001 | Title: Falcon's Eye | Developer: Jaakko Peltonen | Setting: Fantasy | Platform:  | Notes: Graphical update to NetHack .

2001:
    Last: 2018 | Title: Iter Vehemens ad Necem | Developer: Timo Kiviluoto, others | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: DOS, LIN, OSX, WIN | Notes: 

2002:
    Last: 2013 | Title: Doom, the Roguelike | Developer: Kornel Kisielewicz | Setting: Futuristic, fantasy | Platform:  | Notes: Based on the Doom series by id Software .

2003:
    Last: 2015 | Title: Dragonslayer | Developer: Walter Pullen | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: WIN | Notes: 3D classic roguelike played in first-person perspective. Implemented in and distributed with the Daedalus maze-generation software. [ 9 ]

2004:
    Last:  | Title: Kidō Senshi Gundam: Fushigi no Dungeon | Developer: Chunsoft | Setting: Futuristic | Platform: MOBI ( i-mode ) | Notes: Part of Chunsoft's Mystery Dungeon series. Released only in Japan.

2005:
    Last:  | Title: Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team | Developer: Chunsoft | Setting: Modern, fantasy | Platform: DS | Notes: Part of Chunsoft's Mystery Dungeon series. [ 10 ]

2006:
    Last:  | Title: Izuna: Legend of the Unemployed Ninja | Developer: Success | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: DS | Notes: 

2007:
    Last: 2024 | Title: Caves of Qud | Developer: Freehold Games | Setting: Post apocalyptic, science fiction, fantasy | Platform: LIN, OSX, WIN | Notes: Retrofuturistic, post-apocalyptic science fantasy game heavily inspired by classic SF such as Dune , as well as RPGs such as Gamma World . Features a "procedurally handcrafted" and fully simulated (à la Dwarf Fortress ) overworld , as well as static geographical and worldbuilding elements which are uniquely detailed and populated for each run. Can be played in ASCII or with a minimalistic built-in tileset.

2008:
    Last:  | Title: Dramatic Dungeon Sakura Taisen | Developer: Neverland | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: DS | Notes: 

2009:
    Last: 2018 | Title: Brogue | Developer: Brian Walker | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: LIN, MAC, WIN | Notes: 

2010:
    Last:  | Title: 100 Rogues | Developer: Dinofarm Games | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: iOS | Notes: 

2011:
    Last:  | Title: Deadly Dungeons | Developer: CodeZombie Games | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: DROID | Notes: 3D First-person dungeon crawl with randomly generated floors, items, and creatures. Movement is tile-based [ 16 ] and gameplay is similar to Dungeon Hack .

2012:
    Last: 2014 | Title: Battlepaths | Developer: Gamedevel | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: X360, WIN, LIN | Notes: 

2013:
    Last: 2023 | Title: Cataclysm: Dark Days Ahead | Developer: Kevin Granade | Setting: Post-apocalyptic, survival horror | Platform: iOS, LIN, OSX, WIN | Notes: Open-world survival horror roguelike set in a procedurally generated, post-apocalyptic simulation of New England. Mainly focused on survival and combat, with an incredible amount of variety and depth that can be attributed to its open-source community. Turn-based, permadeath , 2D with a few Z-levels, and significant role-playing elements.

2014:
    Last: 2020 | Title: DragonFang: Drahn's Mystery Dungeon | Developer: Toydea | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: DROID, iOS, WIN, 3DS (New) | Notes: 

2015:
    Last:  | Title: Dragon Fin Soup | Developer: Grimm Bros | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: LIN, OSX, PS3, PS4, PSV, WIN | Notes: 

2016:
    Last: 2017 | Title: Rogue Wizards | Developer: Spellbind Studios | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: iOS, OSX, WIN | Notes: 

2017:
    Last: 2019 | Title: DragonFangZ: The Rose & Dungeon of Time | Developer: Toydea | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: WIN, OSX, NX, PS4, XOne, 3DS (New) | Notes: 

2018:
    Last:  | Title: Tangledeep | Developer: Impact Gameworks | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: LIN, OSX, WIN, NX | Notes: 

2019:
    Last:  | Title: Rogue Empire: Dungeon Crawler RPG | Developer: Portal Entertainment | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: LIN, OSX, WIN | Notes: Turn-based role-playing game with a card pickup ability system on character progression weighted on ability rarity.

2020:
    Last:  | Title: Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX | Developer: Spike Chunsoft | Setting: Modern, fantasy | Platform: NX | Notes: Part of Chunsoft's Mystery Dungeon series.

2021:
    Last:  | Title: Baalzebub | Developer: Oshikuru.com | Setting: Fantasy, Infernal | Platform: DROID, iOS, WIN, OSX, LIN | Notes: Turn-based infernal dungeon crawl. Procedural level generation, permadeath , inventory. The main goal is to escape from Hell by navigating through 14 randomly generated levels.

2022:
    Last: 2025 | Title: Overworld | Developer: Red Asteroid Games | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: DROID, LIN, OSX, WIN | Notes: Turn-based 2D RPG . Procedural level generation, permadeath , dungeon crawl elements. Streamlined UX for mobile devices, 10 minute coffee break roguelike.

2023:
    Last:  | Title: Full Gear | Developer: Dieuwt | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: WIN | Notes: Turn-based, 2D, story-driven dungeon crawl , procedural generation, perma-death (with optional progression). Roguelike about an engineer in a steampunk dungeon using Drones, Gadgets, and Cogwheels to survive.

2024:
    Last:  | Title: Shiren the Wanderer: The Mystery Dungeon of Serpentcoil Island | Developer: Spike Chunsoft | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: NX, WIN | Notes: Part of Chunsoft's Mystery Dungeon series.

1975:
    Last:  | Title: pedit5 | Developer: Rusty Rutherford | Setting: Fantasy | Platform: PLATO | Notes: Early dungeon crawler with several key features of later roguelikes, including permadeath , turn-based simple combat, and top-down view . While monsters and treasures are randomly generated, the dungeon itself has a fixed layout.

2025:
    Last:  | Title: No-Skin | Developer: NoEye-Soft | Setting: Horror | Platform: WIN | Notes: A rogue-lite horror game with turn based combat.

1963:
    Game: Intopia | Developer:  | Setting: Modern | Platform:  | Notes: 

1964:
    Game: The Sumerian Game | Developer: Mabel Addis | Setting: Historical | Platform: MAIN | Notes: Text-based economic simulation game based on the ancient Sumerian city-state of Lagash . [ 1 ]

1973:
    Game: Lemonade Stand | Developer: MECC | Setting: Modern | Platform: MAIN, APPII | Notes: Created in 1973, ported to Apple II in 1979

1981:
    Game: Cartels & Cutthroats | Developer: Strategic Simulations | Setting: Modern | Platform: APPII, DOS, C64 | Notes: 

TBA:
    Game: Dyson Sphere Program | Developer: Youthcat Studio | Setting: Sci-fi | Platform: WIN | Notes: Constructing a Dyson sphere from resources in a star cluster in outer space

1969:
    Game: The Sumer Game | Developer: Richard Merrill | Setting: Historical | Platform: MAIN | Notes: Adaptation of The Sumerian Game . [ 1 ]

3D Deathchase:
    Developer: Micromega | Publisher: Timex | Platforms: ZX | Release date: 1983 | Ref.: 

4x4 Off-Road Racing:
    Developer: Odan MicroDesign | Publisher: Epyx | Platforms: CPC, ATRST, AMI, DOS, C64, MSX, ZX | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

500cc Grand Prix:
    Developer: Microïds | Publisher: CPC, ATRST, C64, DOS, TH1 | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

5th Gear:
    Developer: Fantastic Four | Publisher: Hewson Consultants | Platforms: AMI, ATRST, C64 | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

750cc Grand Prix:
    Developer: WASP | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: ZX, CPC | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

A.P.B.:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade, AMI, ATRST, C64, LYNX, ZX | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

Action Fighter:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade, AMI, C64, CPC, ZX, SMS, ATRST | Platforms: 1986 | Release date: 

Alex Kidd BMX Trial:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: SMS | Platforms: 1987-11-15 | Release date: 

Astro Race:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1973 | Release date: 

Auto Racing:
    Developer: APh Technological Consulting | Publisher: Mattel Electronics | Platforms: INT | Release date: 1980 | Ref.: 

Autoduel:
    Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: ATR, ATRST, C64, APPII, DOS, MAC, AMI | Platforms: 1985 | Release date: 

Badlands:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1989 | Release date: 

Baja Buggies:
    Developer: Arcade Plus, Gamestar | Publisher: Gamestar | Platforms: ATR | Release date: 1982 | Ref.: 

Battle Out Run:
    Developer: Sega , Arc System Works | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: SMS | Release date: 1989-09-04 | Ref.: 

Battle-Road, The:
    Developer: Irem | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1984 | Release date: 

Beach Buggy Simulator:
    Developer: Sysoft | Publisher: Silverbird | Platforms: ZX, C64, CPC | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

Big Run:
    Developer: Jaleco | Publisher: Arcade, AMI, ATRST, SNES | Platforms: 1989 | Release date: 

BMX Simulator:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: AMI, ATR, ATRST, CPC, C64, MSX, ZX | Platforms: 1986 | Release date: 

Buggy Boy:
    Developer: Tatsumi | Publisher: JP : Tatsumi NA : Data East WW : Taito | Platforms: Arcade, C64, ZX, CPC, AMI, ATRST | Release date: 1985 | Ref.: 

Buggy Challenge:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: NA : Midway Games WW : Taito | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1984 | Ref.: 

Bump 'n' Jump:
    Developer: Data East | Publisher: Data East , Bally Midway , Vic Tokai | Platforms: Arcade, ATR26, C64, CLV, INT, NES | Release date: 1982 | Ref.: 

Burnin' Rubber:
    Developer: Colo de Wergifosse | Publisher: Colosoftware | Platforms: C64 | Release date: 1983 | Ref.: 

Car Wars:
    Developer: Texas Instruments | Publisher: TI99 | Platforms: 1981 | Release date: 

Championship Sprint:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1986 | Release date: 

Change Lanes:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade, ATR26, VIC20, MSX | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Chariot Race:
    Developer: Micro-Antics | Publisher: VIC20 | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Chase H.Q.:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade, AMI, CPC, ATRST, C64, FMT, GB, GBC, GG, MSX, SMS, GEN, SNES, NES, PCE, ZX | Platforms: 1988-10 | Release date: 

Chequered Flag:
    Developer: Psion | Publisher: Sinclair Research | Platforms: ZX | Release date: 1983-11 | Ref.: 

Chicago 90:
    Developer: Microïds | Publisher: CPC, ATRST, AMI, DOS | Platforms: 1989 | Release date: 

City Bomber:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

City Connection:
    Developer: Jaleco | Publisher: Arcade, NES, MSX, ZX | Platforms: 1985 | Release date: 

Cobra Triangle:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1989-07 | Ref.: 

Continental Circus:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade, AMI, CPC, ATRST, C64, MSX, ZX | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

Crash 'N Score:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1975 | Release date: 

Crashing Race:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1976 | Release date: 

Crazee Rider:
    Developer: Kevin Edwards | Publisher: Superior Software , Acornsoft | Platforms: BBC | Release date: 1987 | Ref.: 

Crosscountry:
    Developer: Ingenuity Works | Publisher: APPII, DOS, MAC, WIN, LIN | Platforms: 1985 | Release date: 

Cycle Race: Road Man:
    Developer: Advance Communication Company | Publisher: Tokyo Shoseki | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1988-12-17 | Ref.: 

Cycles: International Grand Prix Racing, The:
    Developer: Distinctive Software | Publisher: Accolade | Platforms: AMI, C64, DOS, CPC, ZX | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

Datsun 280 ZZZAP:
    Developer: Dave Nutting Associates | Publisher: Midway Manufacturing | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1976-11 | Ref.: 

Death Race:
    Developer: Howell Ivy | Publisher: Exidy | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1976-04-01 | Ref.: 

Deathtrack:
    Developer: Dynamix | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

Destruction Derby (1975 video game):
    Developer: Howell Ivy | Publisher: Exidy | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1975 | Ref.: 

Dirt Fox:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1989-06 | Release date: 

Dodge 'Em:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: ATR26 | Platforms: 1980 | Release date: 

DONKEY.BAS:
    Developer: Bill Gates , Neil Konzen | Publisher: Microsoft | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1981 | Ref.: 

Drag Race Eliminator:
    Developer: Family Software | Publisher: Hisense | Platforms: C64, IBM | Release date: 1986 | Ref.: 

Dragster:
    Developer: Activision | Publisher: ATR26 | Platforms: 1980 | Release date: 

Duel: Test Drive II, The:
    Developer: Distinctive Software | Publisher: Accolade | Platforms: APPII, C64, AMI, ATRST, DOS | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

The Dukes of Hazzard:
    Developer: Coleco | Publisher: Elite Systems | Platforms: CLV, ZX | Release date: 1984 | Ref.: 

E-Type:
    Developer: Gordon J. Key | Publisher: The Fourth Dimension | Platforms: BBC, ARC | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

Enduro:
    Developer: Activision | Publisher: ATR26 | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Enduro Racer:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, SMS, C64, CPC, ZX, ATRST, TH1 | Release date: 1986-09-20 | Ref.: 

Excitebike:
    Developer: Nintendo R&D1 , Hudson Soft , Arika | Publisher: Nintendo , Hudson Soft | Platforms: NES, PC88, X1, Arcade, GBA, GCN, Wii, WiiU, 3DS | Release date: 1984-11-30 | Ref.: 

F-1:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Atari, Inc. | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1976 | Ref.: 

F-1 Dream:
    Developer: Capcom | Publisher: Romstar | Platforms: Arcade, PCE | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

F-1 Race:
    Developer: HAL Laboratory | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: NES, GB | Release date: 1984-11-02 | Ref.: 

F1 Spirit:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: MSX, GB | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

Family Circuit:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: NES | Platforms: 1988-01-06 | Release date: 

Fast Lane:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

Fast Tracks: The Computer Slot Car Construction Kit:
    Developer: Activision | Publisher: C64 | Platforms: 1986 | Release date: 

Final Lap:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Atari Games | Platforms: Arcade, NES | Release date: 1987-12-05 | Ref.: 

Final Lap Twin:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Namco , NEC | Platforms: PCE | Release date: 1989-07-07 | Ref.: 

Fire Truck:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1978 | Release date: 

Fonz / Moto-Cross:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Gremlin | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1976 | Ref.: 

Formula One:
    Developer: G.B. Munday | Publisher: CRL Group | Platforms: ZX, CPC | Release date: 1985 | Ref.: 

Four Trax:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1989-11 | Release date: 

Full Throttle:
    Developer: Mervyn J. Estcourt | Publisher: Micromega | Platforms: ZX, MSX | Release date: 1984 | Ref.: 

Fury, The:
    Developer: Creative Reality | Publisher: Martech Games | Platforms: CPC, ZX | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

Gee Bee Air Rally:
    Developer: Activision | Publisher: C64, AMI, CPC, ZX | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

Gran Trak 10:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1974 | Release date: 

Grand Prix:
    Developer: Activision , Taito | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: ATR26, Arcade | Release date: 1982-03 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix Circuit:
    Developer: Distinctive Software | Publisher: Accolade | Platforms: APPII, CPC, C64, AMI, ATRST, DOS, ZX, MAC | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix Construction Set:
    Developer: Superior Software | Publisher: Acornsoft | Platforms: BBC | Release date: 1987 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix Manager:
    Developer: Silicon Joy | Publisher: ZX | Platforms: 1984 | Release date: 

Grand Prix Simulator:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: CPC, ATR, C64, ZX | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

Great American Cross-Country Road Race, The:
    Developer: Activision | Publisher: ATR, APPII, C64 | Platforms: 1985 | Release date: 

Hang-On:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1985-07 | Release date: 

Hard Drivin':
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1989 | Release date: 

Harley Davidson: The Road to Sturgis:
    Developer: Incredible Technologies, Inc. | Publisher: Mindscape | Platforms: AMI, ATRST, DOS | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

Hazard Run:
    Developer: Artworx | Publisher: Dennis R. Zander | Platforms: ATR | Release date: 1982 | Ref.: 

Head On:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Gremlin | Platforms: Arcade, C64, MSX, AMI, GB | Release date: 1979-04 | Ref.: 

Hi-way:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1975 | Release date: 

High Way Race:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Hot Chase:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1988-06 | Release date: 

Hot Rod:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade, ATRST, C64, AMI, ZX, CPC | Platforms: 1988 | Release date: 

Hot Wheels:
    Developer: A. Eddy Goldfarb & Associates | Publisher: Epyx | Platforms: C64 | Release date: 1984-09-10 | Ref.: 

Indianapolis 500: The Simulation:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: DOS, AMI | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

Indy 4:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1976 | Release date: 

Indy 500:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: ATR26 | Platforms: 1977 | Release date: 

Indy 800:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1975 | Release date: 

Kikstart 2:
    Developer: Magnetic Fields | Publisher: Mastertronic | Platforms: AMI, CPC, C64, C128, ZX | Release date: 1987 | Ref.: 

Knight Rider:
    Developer: Pack-In-Video | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1988-09-30 | Ref.: 

Konami GT:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1985 | Release date: 

Laser Grand Prix:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Last V8, The:
    Developer: David Darling | Publisher: Mastertronic | Platforms: C64, C128, ATR, CPC | Release date: 1985 | Ref.: 

LeMans:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1976 | Release date: 

Live and Let Die:
    Developer: Elite Systems International | Publisher: Domark | Platforms: AMI, ATRST, CPC, C64, ZX | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

Lombard RAC Rally:
    Developer: Red Rat Software | Publisher: Mandarin Software | Platforms: ATRST, AMI, DOS | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

Mach Rider:
    Developer: Nintendo R&D2 | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: Arcade, NES, 3DS, Wii, WiiU | Release date: 1985-11-21 | Ref.: 

Mancopter:
    Developer: Datasoft | Publisher: C64 | Platforms: 1984 | Release date: 

Mattel Auto Race:
    Developer: Mattel | Publisher: — | Platforms: 1976 | Release date: 

Milk Race:
    Developer: Icon Design | Publisher: Mastertronic | Platforms: ZX, C64, ATR, MSX, CPC | Release date: 1987 | Ref.: 

Monaco GP:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Gremlin | Platforms: Arcade, SG1K | Release date: 1979 | Ref.: 

Moto Roader:
    Developer: NCS | Publisher: Konami | Platforms: PCE, Wii, WiiU | Release date: 1989-02-23 | Ref.: 

Motocross:
    Developer: Mattel Electronics | Publisher: INT | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Motocross Maniacs:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Ultra Games | Platforms: GB | Release date: 1989-09-20 | Ref.: 

Motor Mania:
    Developer: UMI | Publisher: C64 | Platforms: 1982 | Release date: 

MotoRace USA:
    Developer: Irem | Publisher: Williams Interactive | Platforms: Arcade, SAT, SG1K, NES | Release date: 1983 | Ref.: 

MunchMobile:
    Developer: SNK Corporation | Publisher: Centuri | Platforms: Arcade, TI99 | Release date: 1983 | Ref.: 

New Rally-X:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: Arcade, MOBI, X360 | Release date: 1981-02 | Ref.: 

Night Driver:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade, ATR26, C64, MSX | Platforms: 1976-10 | Release date: 

Nürburgring 1:
    Developer: Rainer Foerst GmbH | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1975 | Release date: 

Out Run:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, SMS, C64, AMI, ATRST, CPC, MSX, ZX, DOS, PCE | Release date: 1986-09-20 | Ref.: 

Out-Run 3-D:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: SMS | Platforms: 1988 | Release date: 

Overdrive:
    Developer: Superior Software | Publisher: BBC | Platforms: 1984 | Release date: 

Paperboy:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1985-02 | Release date: 

Pitstop:
    Developer: Epyx | Publisher: C64, ATR, CLV | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Pitstop II:
    Developer: Epyx | Publisher: C64, IBM, TRSCC, ATR, APPII, Wii | Platforms: 1984 | Release date: 

Plazma Line:
    Developer: Technosoft | Publisher: PC88, PC60, FM7, X1 | Platforms: 1984-12 | Release date: 

Pole Position:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Namco , Atari | Platforms: Arcade, BBC, C64, VIC20, DOS, ZX | Release date: 1982-09-01 | Ref.: 

Pole Position II:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Namco , Atari, Inc. | Platforms: Arcade, BBC, C64, VIC20, ZX, ATR78, SCV, DOS | Release date: 1983-12 | Ref.: 

Power Drift:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega , Asmik , Activision | Platforms: Arcade, AMI, CPC, ATRST, C64, DC, DOS, MSX, PCE, SAT, ZX, 3DS | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

Power Drive:
    Developer: Bally Midway | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

Powerdrome:
    Developer: Michael Powell | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: ATRST, AMI, DOS, WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

R.C. Pro-Am:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: Nintendo , Rare , Tradewest | Platforms: NES, Arcade, GEN | Release date: 1987 | Ref.: 

Race - Spin-out - Cryptogram:
    Developer: Philips | Publisher: Magnavox | Platforms: ODY2 | Release date: 1978 | Ref.: 

Racer Mini Yonku: Japan Cup:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: NES | Platforms: 1989-08-25 | Release date: 

Racing Destruction Set:
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Publisher: C64, ATR | Platforms: 1985 | Release date: 

Racing Hero:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1989 | Release date: 

Rad Racer:
    Developer: Square | Publisher: Nintendo , Mattel , Square | Platforms: NES, Arcade | Release date: 1987-08-07 | Ref.: 

Rally Bike:
    Developer: Toaplan | Publisher: Taito | Platforms: Arcade, NES, X68K | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

Rally Speedway:
    Developer: Adventure International | Publisher: ATR, C64 | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Rally-X:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Namco , Midway Games | Platforms: Arcade, MSX | Release date: 1980-10-03 | Ref.: 

Revs:
    Developer: Geoff Crammond | Publisher: Acornsoft , Telecomsoft , Superior Software | Platforms: BBC, C64 | Release date: 1984 | Ref.: 

Richard Petty's Talladega:
    Developer: Cosmi | Publisher: Electronic Arts , Ariolasoft | Platforms: Arcade, C64, ATR26, AMI, NES | Release date: 1985 | Ref.: 

Road Avenger:
    Developer: Data East | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: 3DO, Arcade, iOS, DOS, MSX, PS1, SCD, SAT | Release date: 1985-08 | Ref.: 

Road Champion:
    Developer: Taito , Williams Electronics, Inc. | Publisher: Taito | Platforms: Arcade, MSX | Release date: 1978 | Ref.: 

Road Fighter:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade, MSX, NES | Platforms: 1984-12 | Release date: 

Road Race:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1976 | Release date: 

Road Runner:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade, CPC, ATR26, ATRST, C64, DOS, ZX, NES | Platforms: 1985 | Release date: 

RoadBlasters:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Atari Games , U.S. Gold | Platforms: Arcade, GEN, LYNX, CPC, C64, AMI, ZX, ATRST, NES | Release date: 1987 | Ref.: 

Rolling Crash:
    Developer: Nihon Bussan | Publisher: Nichibutsu | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1979 | Ref.: 

Route-16:
    Developer: Tehkan , Sun Electronics | Publisher: Centuri | Platforms: Arcade, NES, A2001 | Release date: 1981 | Ref.: 

Route-16 Turbo:
    Developer: Sunsoft | Publisher: NES | Platforms: 1985-10-04 | Release date: 

S.T.U.N. Runner:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1989 | Release date: 

Seicross:
    Developer: Nihon Bussan | Publisher: Nichibutsu | Platforms: Arcade, NES | Release date: 1984 | Ref.: 

Slalom:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: Arcade, NES | Release date: 1986 | Ref.: 

Slot Racers:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: ATR26 | Platforms: 1978 | Release date: 

Space Race:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1973-07-16 | Release date: 

Special Criminal Investigation:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade, AMI, CPC, ATRST, C64, DOS, SMS, PCE, ZX | Platforms: 1989 | Release date: 

Speed Freak:
    Developer: Vectorbeam | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1979-03 | Release date: 

Speed Race / Wheels:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: NA : Midway Games WW : Taito | Platforms: Arcade, N64 | Release date: 1974 | Ref.: 

Speed Race DX / Wheels DX:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: NA : Midway Games WW : Taito | Platforms: Arcade, AMI | Release date: 1975 | Ref.: 

Speed Race Twin / Wheels Twin:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: NA : Midway Games WW : Taito | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1976 | Ref.: 

Sprint 1:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1978 | Release date: 

Sprint 2:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1976 | Release date: 

Spy Hunter:
    Developer: Midway Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Spy Hunter II:
    Developer: Bally Midway | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1987 | Release date: 

Star Rider:
    Developer: Computer Creations | Publisher: Williams Electronics | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1983 | Ref.: 

Stock Car:
    Developer: A. W. Halse | Publisher: Micro Power | Platforms: BBC, C64 | Release date: 1984 | Ref.: 

Street Racer:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: ATR26 | Platforms: 1977 | Release date: 

Street Rod:
    Developer: P.Z.Karen Co. Development Group, Logical Design Works | Publisher: California Dreams | Platforms: AMI, C64, DOS | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

Stunt Car Racer:
    Developer: MicroStyle , The Creative Assembly | Publisher: MicroProse , MicroPlay | Platforms: AMI, CPC, ATRST, C64, DOS, ZX | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

Super Bug:
    Developer: Atari, Inc. | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1977-09 | Release date: 

Super Hang-On:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, GEN, GBA, AMI, ATRST, MAC, ZX, CPC, C64, 3DS, PS4 | Release date: 1987 | Ref.: 

Super Monaco GP:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: U.S. Gold , Sega | Platforms: Arcade, GEN, AMI, CPC, ATRST, C64, GG, SMS, ZX | Release date: 1989-05-19 | Ref.: 

Super Off Road:
    Developer: Leland Corporation | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1989 | Release date: 

Super Rider:
    Developer: Venture Line | Publisher: Taito | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1983 | Ref.: 

Super Speed Race:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade, AMI | Platforms: 1977 | Release date: 

Super Speed Race CL5:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1978 | Release date: 

Super Speed Race GP-V:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade, C64 | Platforms: 1980 | Release date: 

Super Speed Race Jr.:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1985 | Release date: 

Super Speed Race V:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade, AMI | Platforms: 1978 | Release date: 

Super Sprint:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1986 | Release date: 

Suzuki's RM 250 Motocross:
    Developer: Dynamix | Publisher: Gamestar | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

Tail to Nose:
    Developer: Video System | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1989 | Release date: 

Taito Grand Prix: Eikou heno License:
    Developer: Now Production | Publisher: Taito | Platforms: FDS | Release date: 1987-12-18 | Ref.: 

Techno Cop:
    Developer: Gray Matter, Imagexcel | Publisher: U.S. Gold | Platforms: AMI, CPC, APPII, ATRST, C64, DOS, GEN, ZX | Release date: 1988 | Ref.: 

Test Drive:
    Developer: Distinctive Software | Publisher: Accolade | Platforms: APPII, C64, AMI, ATRST, DOS | Release date: 1987-06-06 | Ref.: 

Tranz Am:
    Developer: Tim and Chris Stamper | Publisher: Ultimate Play the Game | Platforms: ZX | Release date: 1983-07 | Ref.: 

Turbo:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade, CLV, INT | Platforms: 1981 | Release date: 

Turbo Esprit:
    Developer: Mike Richardson | Publisher: Durell Software | Platforms: ZX, CPC, C64 | Release date: 1986-05 | Ref.: 

Turbo Outrun:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, ATRST, C64, AMI, ZX, CPC, DOS, FMT, GEN | Release date: 1989-02-11 | Ref.: 

Twin Course T.T.:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1977 | Release date: 

TX-1:
    Developer: Tatsumi | Publisher: Namco , Atari, Inc. | Platforms: Arcade, C64, ATR78, ZX | Release date: 1983-12 | Ref.: 

TX-1 V8:
    Developer: Tatsumi | Publisher: Namco | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1984-03 | Ref.: 

Up'n Down:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade, ATR26, ATR, CLV, C64 | Platforms: 1983 | Release date: 

Vette!:
    Developer: Sphere | Publisher: Spectrum HoloByte | Platforms: DOS, MAC, PC98 | Release date: 1989 | Ref.: 

Victory Run:
    Developer: Hudson Soft | Publisher: PCE, PSN | Platforms: 1987-12-28 | Release date: 

WEC Le Mans:
    Developer: Konami , Banpresto | Publisher: ADK , Imagine Software | Platforms: Arcade, CPC, C64, MSX, ZX | Release date: 1986-09 | Ref.: 

Winning Run:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1988-12 | Release date: 

World Grand Prix:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: SMS | Platforms: 1986-09-21 | Release date: 

2Xtreme:
    Developer: 989 Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1996-11-06 | Ref.: 

360: Three Sixty:
    Developer: Smart Dog | Publisher: Cryo Interactive | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-07 | Ref.: 

3Xtreme:
    Developer: 989 Sports | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-04-21 | Ref.: 

A.B. Cop:
    Developer: Aicom | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1990-12-11 | Ref.: 

ABC Sports Indy Racing:
    Developer: Shot Sports Software | Publisher: ABC Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

Ace Driver:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1994-11 | Release date: 

Ace Driver: Victory Lap:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1996-11 | Release date: 

AeroGauge:
    Developer: Locomotive Games | Publisher: ASCII Entertainment | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1998-04-30 | Ref.: 

Aguri Suzuki F-1 Super Driving:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Absolute Entertainment | Platforms: SNES, GB | Release date: 1992-07-14 | Ref.: 

Air Boarder 64:
    Developer: Human Entertainment | Publisher: ASCII Corporation | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1998-03-27 | Ref.: 

Al Unser Jr. Arcade Racing:
    Developer: Mindscape Bordeaux | Publisher: Mindscape | Platforms: WIN, MAC | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

Al Unser Jr.'s Road to the Top:
    Developer: Radical Entertainment | Publisher: Mindscape | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-11 | Ref.: 

Al Unser Jr.'s Turbo Racing:
    Developer: Data East | Publisher: NES | Platforms: 1990-03 | Release date: 

Alpine Surfer:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1996-07-22 | Release date: 

AMA Superbike:
    Developer: Motorsims | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 1999-10 | Release date: 

Andretti Racing:
    Developer: Stormfront Studios | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: SAT, WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

Atari Karts:
    Developer: Miracle Designs | Publisher: Atari Corporation | Platforms: JAG | Release date: 1995-12-15 | Ref.: 

ATR: All Terrain Racing:
    Developer: Team17 | Publisher: AMI, AMI32 | Platforms: 1995 | Release date: 

Automobili Lamborghini:
    Developer: Titus France | Publisher: N64 | Platforms: 1997-11-30 | Release date: 

Ayrton Senna's Super Monaco GP II:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: SMS, GEN, GG | Platforms: 1992-07-17 | Release date: 

Battle Cars:
    Developer: Malibu Interactive | Publisher: Namco | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1993-10 | Ref.: 

Battle Cross:
    Developer: A-Max | Publisher: Imagineer | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-12-09 | Ref.: 

Battle Gear:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade, PS1, PS2 | Platforms: 1996 | Release date: 

Battle Grand Prix:
    Developer: KID | Publisher: Hudson Soft , Konami | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1992-03-27 | Ref.: 

Battle Racers:
    Developer: Banpresto | Publisher: Genki , Bandai Namco Holdings | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-03-17 | Ref.: 

BC Racers:
    Developer: Core Design | Publisher: SCD, S32X, WIN, 3DO | Platforms: 1995 | Release date: 

Beetle Adventure Racing:
    Developer: Paradigm Entertainment | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1999-02-28 | Ref.: 

Beverly Hills Cop:
    Developer: Tynesoft | Publisher: AMI, CPC, ATRST, BBC, C64, DOS, ZX | Platforms: 1990 | Release date: 

Big Red Racing:
    Developer: Big Red Software | Publisher: Eidos Interactive | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1996-02-29 | Ref.: 

Bigfoot:
    Developer: Beam Software Company | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1990-07 | Ref.: 

Bike Daisuki! Hashiriya Kon - Rider's Spirits:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Masaya | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-09-30 | Ref.: 

Biker Mice from Mars:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: SNES | Platforms: 1994-12 | Release date: 

Bill Elliott's NASCAR Challenge:
    Developer: Distinctive Software | Publisher: Konami | Platforms: DOS, AMI, MAC, NES, GB | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Bomberman Fantasy Race:
    Developer: Graphic Research Inc. | Publisher: Atlus , Hudson Soft | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998-08-06 | Ref.: 

Boss Rally:
    Developer: Boss Game Studios | Publisher: SouthPeak Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Bravo Air Race:
    Developer: Xing Entertainment | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-07-31 | Ref.: 

Bug Riders:
    Developer: n-Space | Publisher: GT Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1, PSN | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

Buggy Run:
    Developer: SIMS | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: SMS | Release date: 1993-12 | Ref.: 

Burning Road:
    Developer: Toka | Publisher: Playmates Interactive | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1996-09-30 | Ref.: 

Burnout Championship Drag Racing:
    Developer: Bethesda Softworks | Publisher: DOS | Platforms: 1998 | Release date: 

C3 Racing:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998 | Ref.: 

California Speed:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1998 | Release date: 

Car & Driver Presents: Grand Tour Racing '98:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-09-30 | Ref.: 

Car and Driver (video game):
    Developer: Lerner Research | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1992 | Ref.: 

Carmageddon:
    Developer: Stainless Games | Publisher: Sales Curve Interactive , Interplay Productions | Platforms: DOS, WIN, MAC, PS1, N64, GBC, iOS, DROID | Release date: 1997-06-30 | Ref.: 

Carmageddon II: Carpocalypse Now:
    Developer: Stainless Games | Publisher: Sales Curve Interactive , Interplay Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, MAC | Release date: 1998-11-30 | Ref.: 

CART Precision Racing:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1997-11-20 | Ref.: 

CART World Series:
    Developer: Sony Computer Entertainment | Publisher: SCEA | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-09-16 | Ref.: 

Castrol Honda Superbike 2000:
    Developer: Interactive Entertainment | Publisher: Midas Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999-07 | Ref.: 

Castrol Honda Superbike Racing:
    Developer: Interactive Entertainment | Publisher: USA : Electronic Arts EU : THQ JP : Success | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-04-30 | Ref.: 

Castrol Honda SuperBike World Champions:
    Developer: Interactive Entertainment | Publisher: Midas Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1998-03-24 | Ref.: 

Championship Motocross featuring Ricky Carmichael:
    Developer: Funcom Dublin | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Championship Rally:
    Developer: Human Entertainment | Publisher: HAL Laboratory | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1992 | Ref.: 

Checkered Flag:
    Developer: Atari Corporation | Publisher: LYNX | Platforms: 1991 | Release date: 

Checkered Flag (1994):
    Developer: Rebellion Developments | Publisher: Atari Corporation | Platforms: JAG | Release date: 1994-11-28 | Ref.: 

Chocobo Racing:
    Developer: Square | Publisher: Square Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-03-18 | Ref.: 

Choro Q 64 2: Hachamecha Grand Prix Race:
    Developer: Locomotive Staff | Publisher: Takara | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1999-12-24 | Ref.: 

Circuit Breakers:
    Developer: Supersonic Software | Publisher: Mindscape | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998-07 | Ref.: 

Cisco Heat:
    Developer: Jaleco | Publisher: AMI, CPC, Arcade, ATRST, C64, DOS, ZX | Platforms: 1990-10 | Release date: 

Club Drive:
    Developer: Atari Corporation | Publisher: JAG | Platforms: 1994-11-28 | Release date: 

Colin McRae Rally:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: Codemasters , SCEA , Spike , THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC | Release date: 1998-01-01 | Ref.: 

Combat Cars:
    Developer: Accolade | Publisher: GEN | Platforms: 1994 | Release date: 

Combo Racer:
    Developer: Imagetic Design | Publisher: Gremlin Graphics | Platforms: ATRST, AMI | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Cool Riders:
    Developer: Sega AM1 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1995-04 | Ref.: 

Cosmic Race:
    Developer: Neorex | Publisher: PS1 | Platforms: 1995-01-20 | Release date: 

Crash N Burn:
    Developer: Crystal Dynamics | Publisher: 3DO | Platforms: 1993-10 | Release date: 

Crash Team Racing:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-09-30 | Ref.: 

Crazy Taxi:
    Developer: Hitmaker , Acclaim Studios Cheltenham , Strangelite | Publisher: Sega , Acclaim Entertainment , Activision Value | Platforms: WIN, Arcade, DC, PS2, GCN, PSN, X360, iOS, DROID | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Cruis'n Exotica:
    Developer: Midway Games | Publisher: Arcade, N64, GBC | Platforms: 1999 | Release date: 

Cruis'n USA:
    Developer: Midway Games , Williams Interactive | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: Arcade, N64 | Release date: 1994-11 | Ref.: 

Cruis'n World:
    Developer: Midway Games , Eurocom | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: Arcade, N64 | Release date: 1996-11 | Ref.: 

Cyber Cycles:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1995 | Release date: 

Cyber Speedway:
    Developer: Nex Entertainment | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: SAT | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

Cyber Spin:
    Developer: Arc System Works | Publisher: Takara | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1992-03-19 | Ref.: 

CyberRace:
    Developer: Cyberdreams | Publisher: DOS | Platforms: 1993 | Release date: 

CyberSpeed:
    Developer: Mindscape | Publisher: WIN, PS1 | Platforms: 1995-09-15 | Release date: 

Cyclemania:
    Developer: Compro Games | Publisher: Accolade | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

Dangerous Curves:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1995-07 | Release date: 

Danny Sullivan's Indy Heat:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: Leland Corporation | Platforms: Arcade, NES, AMI, ATRST, C64 | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

Days of Thunder:
    Developer: Argonaut Software | Publisher: Mindscape | Platforms: AMI, ATRST, C64, DOS, GB, NES, iOS, X360, PSN, ZX | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Daytona USA:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, SAT, WIN, X360, PSN | Release date: 1993 | Ref.: 

Daytona USA 2:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1998-06 | Ref.: 

Daytona USA: Championship Circuit Edition:
    Developer: Sega AM3 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: SAT, WIN | Release date: 1996-11 | Ref.: 

Dead Heat Scramble:
    Developer: Copya System | Publisher: Electro Brain | Platforms: GB | Release date: 1990-04-20 | Ref.: 

Dead in the Water:
    Developer: Player 1 | Publisher: ASC Games | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-03-19 | Ref.: 

Death Race 98:
    Developer: Exidy | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1998 | Release date: 

Death Rally:
    Developer: Remedy Entertainment | Publisher: Apogee Software | Platforms: DOS, WIN, iOS, FOS | Release date: 1996-09-07 | Ref.: 

Delta V:
    Developer: Bethesda Softworks | Publisher: DOS | Platforms: 1994 | Release date: 

Demolition Racer:
    Developer: Pitbull Syndicate | Publisher: Infogrames , Atari SA | Platforms: WIN, PS1, DC | Release date: 1999-08-31 | Ref.: 

Destruction Derby:
    Developer: Reflections Interactive | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platforms: DOS, PS1, SAT, DOS, N64 | Release date: 1995-10-20 | Ref.: 

Destruction Derby 2:
    Developer: Reflections Interactive | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1996 | Ref.: 

DethKarz:
    Developer: Melbourne House | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 1998 | Release date: 

Diddy Kong Racing:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1997-11-07 | Ref.: 

Dirt Dash:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1995-12 | Release date: 

Dirt Racer:
    Developer: MotiveTime | Publisher: Elite Systems | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-05 | Ref.: 

Dirt Trax FX:
    Developer: Sculptured Software | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-06 | Ref.: 

Double Axle:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1991 | Release date: 

Double Clutch:
    Developer: BGS Development | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: GEN | Release date: 1992 | Ref.: 

Driver:
    Developer: Reflections Interactive , Crawfish Interactive, Gameloft | Publisher: GT Interactive , Infogrames , Gameloft | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC, iOS, MAC, PSN | Release date: 1999-06-30 | Ref.: 

Driver's Eyes:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1990 | Release date: 

The Dukes of Hazzard: Racing for Home:
    Developer: Sinister Games | Publisher: SouthPeak Interactive | Platforms: WIN, GBC, PS1 | Release date: 1999-11-30 | Ref.: 

E-Type 2:
    Developer: Gordon J. Key | Publisher: The Fourth Dimension | Platforms: ARC, BBC | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

Eat My Dust:
    Developer: Davidson & Associates, Inc. | Publisher: Sierra On-Line | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1996 | Ref.: 

Eliminator Boat Duel:
    Developer: Sculptured Software | Publisher: Electro Brain | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1991-11 | Ref.: 

Emergency Call Ambulance:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1999 | Release date: 

ESPN Extreme Games:
    Developer: 989 Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1, DOS | Release date: 1995-09-09 | Ref.: 

ESPN SpeedWorld:
    Developer: Park Place Productions | Publisher: Sony Imagesoft | Platforms: SNES, GEN | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

Explosive Racing:
    Developer: Funsoft | Publisher: Toka | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

Extreme-G:
    Developer: Probe Entertainment | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1997-09-30 | Ref.: 

Extreme-G 2:
    Developer: Probe Entertainment | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: N64, WIN | Release date: 1998-11-18 | Ref.: 

F-1 Grand Prix:
    Developer: Video System | Publisher: Paradigm Entertainment | Platforms: Arcade, WIN, SNES, N64, DC, GBC, PS1 | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

F-1 Hero MD:
    Developer: System 3 | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: GEN, GB, NES | Release date: 1992-05-12 | Ref.: 

F-1 Sensation:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: NES | Platforms: 1993-01-29 | Release date: 

F-1 World Grand Prix:
    Developer: Paradigm Entertainment , Lankhor | Publisher: Eidos Interactive , Sega | Platforms: N64, DC, PS1, GBC, WIN | Release date: 1998-07-31 | Ref.: 

F-1 World Grand Prix II:
    Developer: Paradigm Entertainment | Publisher: Video System | Platforms: N64, GBC, DC | Release date: 1999-09-30 | Ref.: 

F-Zero:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1991-08-23 | Ref.: 

F-Zero X:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1998-07-14 | Ref.: 

F1:
    Developer: Lankhor | Publisher: Domark , Tengen | Platforms: ATRST, GEN, SMS, GG, AMI | Release date: 1993-01-01 | Ref.: 

F1 Challenge:
    Developer: Bell Corporation | Publisher: Sega , Virgin Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: SAT | Release date: 1995-11-02 | Ref.: 

F1 Circus:
    Developer: Nihon Bussan | Publisher: Nichibutsu | Platforms: NES, PCE | Release date: 1990-09-14 | Ref.: 

F1 Exhaust Note:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1991-11-23 | Release date: 

F1 Grand Prix: Nakajima Satoru:
    Developer: Varie | Publisher: GEN | Platforms: 1991-12-20 | Release date: 

F1 Pole Position:
    Developer: Human Entertainment | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1992-10-20 | Ref.: 

F1 Pole Position 2:
    Developer: Human Entertainment | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1993-12-24 | Ref.: 

F1 Pole Position 64:
    Developer: Human Entertainment | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1997-03-28 | Ref.: 

F1 Racing Simulation:
    Developer: Ubisoft | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 1997 | Release date: 

F1 ROC II: Race of Champions:
    Developer: SETA Corporation | Publisher: SNES | Platforms: 1993-03-05 | Release date: 

F1 ROC: Race of Champions:
    Developer: SETA Corporation | Publisher: SNES | Platforms: 1992-02-21 | Release date: 

F355 Challenge:
    Developer: Sega AM2 , CRI , Tose | Publisher: Sega , Acclaim Entertainment , Sony Computer Entertainment Europe | Platforms: Arcade, DC, PS2 | Release date: 1999-10-11 | Ref.: 

Fastest 1:
    Developer: Human Entertainment | Publisher: GEN | Platforms: 1991-06-28 | Release date: 

Fatal Racing / Whiplash:
    Developer: Gremlin | Publisher: DOS | Platforms: 1996-01-31 | Release date: 

Felony 11-79:
    Developer: Climax Entertainment | Publisher: ASCII Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-05-23 | Ref.: 

Final Lap 2:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1990-08 | Release date: 

Final Lap 3:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1992-09 | Release date: 

Final Lap R:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1993-12 | Release date: 

Final Stretch:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: LOZC G. Amusements | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1993-11-12 | Ref.: 

Fire & Forget II:
    Developer: Titus France | Publisher: Sega , Amstrad | Platforms: SMS, GX4000 | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Flag to Flag:
    Developer: Zoom | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: DC | Release date: 1999-03-25 | Ref.: 

Formula 1:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1996-08-30 | Ref.: 

Formula 1 97:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1997-09-26 | Ref.: 

Formula 1 98:
    Developer: Visual Science | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998-10-30 | Ref.: 

Formula One 99:
    Developer: Studio 33 | Publisher: Psygnosis , Take-Two Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1999-10-20 | Ref.: 

Formula One Grand Prix:
    Developer: MicroProse | Publisher: WIN, DOS, AMI, ATRST | Platforms: 1992-01-09 | Release date: 

Formula One World Championship: Beyond the Limit:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: SCD | Platforms: 1994-04-23 | Release date: 

Formula One: Built to Win:
    Developer: Winky Soft | Publisher: SETA Corporation | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1990-11 | Ref.: 

Full Throttle: All-American Racing:
    Developer: Gremlin Interactive | Publisher: Cybersoft | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-12-16 | Ref.: 

Future Racer:
    Developer: D Cruise | Publisher: Midas Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-05-23 | Ref.: 

Galaxy 5000:
    Developer: Activision | Publisher: NES | Platforms: 1991-02 | Release date: 

GLtron:
    Developer: GLtron.org | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: LIN, WIN, MAC, OSX, AmiOS, SYM, DROID | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

GP 500:
    Developer: Melbourne House | Publisher: Hasbro Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

GP Rider:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, SMS, GG | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

GP-1:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Atlus , Sega | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1993-06-25 | Ref.: 

GP-1: Part II:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Atlus , Sega | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-11-18 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-12-23 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo 2:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-12-11 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix 2:
    Developer: MicroProse | Publisher: DOS | Platforms: 1996-08-30 | Release date: 

Grand Prix Legends:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Sierra On-Line | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1998-10-31 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix Manager 2:
    Developer: Edward Grabowski Communications | Publisher: MicroProse | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1996 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix World:
    Developer: MicroProse | Publisher: Hasbro Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

GT 64: Championship Edition:
    Developer: Imagineer | Publisher: Ocean of America | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1998-04-14 | Ref.: 

GTI Club:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1996 | Release date: 

Hang-On GP:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: SAT | Release date: 1995-10-27 | Ref.: 

Hanna Barbera's Turbo Toons:
    Developer: Empire Interactive | Publisher: SNES | Platforms: 1994-10 | Release date: 

Hard Truck:
    Developer: ValuSoft | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 1998-04-20 | Release date: 

Hardcore 4X4:
    Developer: Gremlin Interactive | Publisher: ASC Games | Platforms: SAT, WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1996-11-30 | Ref.: 

Harley-Davidson & L.A. Riders:
    Developer: Sega AM1 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1997-12 | Ref.: 

Harley-Davidson: Race Across America:
    Developer: Canopy Games | Publisher: WizardWorks Software | Platforms: WIN, GBC | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Hashire Hebereke:
    Developer: Sunsoft | Publisher: SNES, WIN | Platforms: 1994-12-22 | Release date: 

Hi-Octane:
    Developer: Bullfrog Productions | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: DOS, PS1, SAT | Release date: 1995-08 | Ref.: 

High Velocity:
    Developer: Cave | Publisher: Atlus , Sega | Platforms: SAT | Release date: 1995-11-10 | Ref.: 

Highway Patrol 2:
    Developer: Microids | Publisher: ATRST, AMI, DOS | Platforms: 1991 | Release date: 

Hot Wheels Stunt Track Driver:
    Developer: Mattel , Lucky Chicken Games | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, GBC | Release date: 1998-10-15 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels Turbo Racing:
    Developer: Stormfront Studios | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: N64, PS1 | Release date: 1999-05-11 | Ref.: 

HoverRace:
    Developer: GrokkSoft | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 1996 | Release date: 

Hydro Thunder:
    Developer: Midway Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1999 | Release date: 

Hyperdrive:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Midway Manufacturing Co. | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1998 | Ref.: 

Iggy's Reckin' Balls:
    Developer: Iguana Entertainment | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1998-07-31 | Ref.: 

Ignition:
    Developer: Unique Development Studios | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platforms: DOS, WIN | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

IndyCar Racing:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1993 | Ref.: 

IndyCar Racing II:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: DOS, MAC, WIN | Platforms: 1995 | Release date: 

International Rally Championship:
    Developer: Europress | Publisher: Europress , Interplay Entertainment , THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1997-09-22 | Ref.: 

Interstate '76:
    Developer: Activision | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 1997-02-28 | Release date: 

Interstate 82:
    Developer: Activision | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999-11-22 | Ref.: 

Jaguar XJ220:
    Developer: Core Design | Publisher: AMI, SCD | Platforms: 1992 | Release date: 

Jambo! Safari:
    Developer: Sega AM2 , Sega AM3 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, Wii, DS | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Jeep Jamboree: Off Road Adventure:
    Developer: Gremlin Interactive | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platforms: GB | Release date: 1992-07 | Ref.: 

Jeff Gordon XS Racing:
    Developer: Natsume Co., Ltd. | Publisher: ASC Games | Platforms: WIN, GBC | Release date: 1999-05-31 | Ref.: 

Jeremy McGrath Supercross 98:
    Developer: Atod , Probe Entertainment | Publisher: Acclaim Sports | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998-06-22 | Ref.: 

Jet Moto:
    Developer: SingleTrac | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS1, PSN | Release date: 1996-10-31 | Ref.: 

Jet Moto 2:
    Developer: SingleTrac | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1, PSN | Release date: 1997-10-31 | Ref.: 

Jet Moto 3:
    Developer: Pacific Coast Power & Light | Publisher: 989 Sports | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-09-16 | Ref.: 

Jikkyō GI Stable:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: N64 | Platforms: 1999-04-28 | Release date: 

Jissen Kyōtei:
    Developer: Aisystem Tokyo | Publisher: Imagineer | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-06-23 | Ref.: 

Kat's Run: Zen-Nippon K Car Senshuken:
    Developer: Atlus | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-07-14 | Ref.: 

Kawasaki Caribbean Challenge:
    Developer: Park Place Productions | Publisher: GameTek | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1993-06 | Ref.: 

Kawasaki Superbike Challenge:
    Developer: Lankhor | Publisher: Time Warner Interactive | Platforms: GEN, SNES, GG | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

Killer Loop:
    Developer: VCC Entertainment, Cybermind | Publisher: Crave Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS1, DC, Arcade | Release date: 1999-02 | Ref.: 

Kingdom Grand Prix:
    Developer: Raizing | Publisher: Eighting | Platforms: Arcade, SAT | Release date: 1994-09 | Ref.: 

Knight Rider Special:
    Developer: Pack-In Video Co. | Publisher: PCE | Platforms: 1994-11-16 | Release date: 

Kyle Petty's No Fear Racing:
    Developer: Leland Interactive Media | Publisher: Williams Entertainment | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-04 | Ref.: 

Lamborghini American Challenge:
    Developer: Titus France | Publisher: SNES, AMI, AMI32, GB, WIN, DOS | Platforms: 1994 | Release date: 

Le Mans 24:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1997-09 | Release date: 

Le Mans 24 Hours:
    Developer: Eutechnyx Infogrames Melbourne House Torus Games | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC, DC, PS2 | Release date: 1999-11-26 | Ref.: 

Legend of Bishin, The:
    Developer: Magifact | Publisher: SNES | Platforms: 1993-12-25 | Release date: 

Lego Racers:
    Developer: High Voltage Software | Publisher: Lego Media | Platforms: WIN, N64, PS1, GBC | Release date: 1999-07-31 | Ref.: 

Locus:
    Developer: Zombie Studios | Publisher: GT Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

Lotus Esprit Turbo Challenge:
    Developer: Magnetic Fields | Publisher: Gremlin Graphics | Platforms: AMI, AMI32, CPC, ATRST, C64, ZX | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Lotus III: The Ultimate Challenge:
    Developer: Magnetic Fields | Publisher: Gremlin Graphics | Platforms: AMI, AMI32, ATRST, DOS, GEN | Release date: 1992 | Ref.: 

Lotus Turbo Challenge 2:
    Developer: Magnetic Fields | Publisher: Gremlin Graphics | Platforms: AMI, AMI32, ATRST, ARC, GEN | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

Lucky & Wild:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1992-12 | Release date: 

Mad Trax:
    Developer: RayLand Interactive | Publisher: Project Two Interactive BV | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1998 | Ref.: 

Manic Karts:
    Developer: Manic Media Productions | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

Manx TT Super Bike:
    Developer: Sega AM3 , Sega AM4 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, SAT, WIN | Release date: 1995-11-28 | Ref.: 

Mario Andretti Racing:
    Developer: Stormfront Studios | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: GEN | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

Mario Andretti's Racing Challenge:
    Developer: Distinctive Software | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart 64:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: N64, Wii, WiiU | Release date: 1996-12-14 | Ref.: 

Matrix Marauders:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Psyclapse | Platforms: AMI, ATRST | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Mega Man Battle & Chase:
    Developer: Capcom | Publisher: Capcom Infogrames | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-03-20 | Ref.: 

MegaRace:
    Developer: Cryo Interactive | Publisher: The Software Toolworks | Platforms: DOS, SCD, 3DO | Release date: 1993 | Ref.: 

MegaRace 2:
    Developer: Cryo Interactive | Publisher: Mindscape | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1996-08-31 | Ref.: 

Michael Andretti's Indy Car Challenge:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Bullet Proof Software | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-09 | Ref.: 

Michael Andretti's World GP:
    Developer: Human Entertainment | Publisher: Varie , Sammy Corporation | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1990-06 | Ref.: 

Mickey's Racing Adventure:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GBC | Release date: 1999-11-22 | Ref.: 

Micro Machines:
    Developer: Codemasters , Infogrames Sheffield House | Publisher: Codemasters , Infogrames | Platforms: NES, AMI, GG, SMS, GEN, DOS, CDI, SNES, GB, PS2, XBOX, GBA | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

Micro Machines 2: Turbo Tournament:
    Developer: Superior Software , Codemasters | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: GEN, DOS, GG, SNES, GB | Release date: 1994-11 | Ref.: 

Micro Machines V3:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: WIN, PS1, N64, GBC | Release date: 1997-03 | Ref.: 

Midtown Madness:
    Developer: Angel Studios | Publisher: Microsoft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999-02-27 | Ref.: 

Mobil 1 Rally Championship:
    Developer: Magnetic Fields , Creative Asylum Limited | Publisher: Actualize , Ubisoft , Europress Software | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1999-11-19 | Ref.: 

Monaco Grand Prix:
    Developer: Ubi Soft Paris | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: WIN, DC, N64, PS1 | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Monster Truck Madness:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1996-08-31 | Ref.: 

Monster Truck Madness 2:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Publisher: Microsoft Games , Rockstar Games | Platforms: WIN, N64 | Release date: 1998-04-30 | Ref.: 

Monster Truck Rally:
    Developer: Realtime Associates | Publisher: INTV Corporation | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

Moto Racer:
    Developer: SK Software International | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1997-08-31 | Ref.: 

Moto Racer 2:
    Developer: Delphine Software International | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1998-07-21 | Ref.: 

Motocross Championship:
    Developer: Artech Studios | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: S32X | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

Motocross Go!:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1998 | Release date: 

Motocross Madness (1998):
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1998-08-14 | Ref.: 

Motor City Patrol:
    Developer: Source Research & Development | Publisher: Matchbox | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1992-01 | Ref.: 

Motor Psycho:
    Developer: BlueSky Software | Publisher: Atari Corporation | Platforms: ATR78 | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Motor Raid:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1997-10 | Release date: 

Motor Toon Grand Prix:
    Developer: Poly's | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1994-12-16 | Ref.: 

Motor Toon Grand Prix 2:
    Developer: Polys Entertainment | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1996-05-24 | Ref.: 

Motorhead:
    Developer: EA Digital Illusions CE | Publisher: Gremlin Interactive , Fox Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1998-04 | Ref.: 

Mountain Bike Rally:
    Developer: Radical Entertainment | Publisher: ASC Games | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-11 | Ref.: 

MRC: Multi-Racing Championship:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Imagineer , Ocean Software | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1997-07-18 | Ref.: 

Nakajima Satoru F-1 Hero '94:
    Developer: Varie | Publisher: SNES | Platforms: 1994-09-22 | Release date: 

Nakajima Satoru Kanshū F1 Super License:
    Developer: Varie | Publisher: GEN | Platforms: 1992-12-11 | Release date: 

NASCAR 98:
    Developer: EA Sports | Publisher: SAT, PS1 | Platforms: 1997-11-13 | Release date: 

NASCAR 99:
    Developer: EA Sports , Stormfront Studios | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: N64, PS1 | Release date: 1998-09-11 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Legends:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Sierra Sports | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Racing:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Papyrus Design Group , Sierra | Platforms: DOS, PS1, MAC | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Racing 1999 Edition:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Sierra Sports | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Racing 2:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: WIN, DOS, MAC | Platforms: 1996 | Release date: 

NASCAR Racing 3:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999-10-12 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Revolution:
    Developer: Stormfront Studios | Publisher: EA Sports , Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999-01-31 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed II:
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Publisher: WIN, PS1 | Platforms: 1997-03-31 | Release date: 

Need for Speed III: Hot Pursuit:
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Publisher: WIN, PS1 | Platforms: 1998-09-30 | Release date: 

Need for Speed, The:
    Developer: Pioneer Productions | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: 3DO, DOS, PS1, SAT | Release date: 1994-12 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: High Stakes:
    Developer: EA Canada , EA Seattle | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1999-03-18 | Ref.: 

Neo Drift Out: New Technology:
    Developer: Visco Corporation | Publisher: SNK | Platforms: Arcade, NEOCD | Release date: 1996-03-28 | Ref.: 

Network Q RAC Rally:
    Developer: Pixelcraft | Publisher: Accolade | Platforms: DOS, FMT, PC98 | Release date: 1993 | Ref.: 

Network Q RAC Rally Championship:
    Developer: Magnetic Fields | Publisher: Europress | Platforms: DOS, WIN | Release date: 1996-07-06 | Ref.: 

Newman/Haas IndyCar featuring Nigel Mansell:
    Developer: Gremlin Interactive | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: SNES, GEN | Release date: 1994-11 | Ref.: 

Nigel Mansell's World Championship Racing:
    Developer: Gremlin Graphics | Publisher: GameTek | Platforms: AMI, AMI32, CPC, ATRST, GB, DOS, NES, GEN, SNES, ZX | Release date: 1992 | Ref.: 

Nitro:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: AMI, ATRST | Platforms: 1990 | Release date: 

No Fear Downhill Mountain Biking:
    Developer: Unique Development Studios | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: PS1, GBC | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

No Second Prize:
    Developer: Thalion Software | Publisher: AMI, ATRST | Platforms: 1992 | Release date: 

Off Road Challenge:
    Developer: Midway Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1997 | Release date: 

Off-World Interceptor:
    Developer: Crystal Dynamics | Publisher: 3DO, SAT, PS1 | Platforms: 1994 | Release date: 

Official Formula One Racing:
    Developer: Lankhor | Publisher: Eidos Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Offroad Thunder:
    Developer: Midway Games | Publisher: Arcade, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Platforms: 1999-09-21 | Release date: 

Out Run Europa:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Probe Software , U.S. Gold | Platforms: AMI, CPC, ATRST, C64, GG, SMS, ZX | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

OutRun 2019:
    Developer: SIMS Co., Ltd. | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: GEN | Release date: 1993-03-26 | Ref.: 

OutRunners:
    Developer: Sega AM1 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, GEN | Release date: 1992-05-15 | Ref.: 

Over Top:
    Developer: ADK | Publisher: SNK | Platforms: Arcade, NEO, NEOCD, NX, PS4, XOne | Release date: 1996-04-26 | Ref.: 

Overtake:
    Developer: Zoom | Publisher: X68K | Platforms: 1992-11-13 | Release date: 

Peak Performance:
    Developer: Cave | Publisher: Atlus , Sega | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-01-22 | Ref.: 

Pen Pen TriIcelon:
    Developer: Land Ho!, General Entertainment | Publisher: Infogrames North America | Platforms: DC | Release date: 1998-11-27 | Ref.: 

Penny Racers:
    Developer: Locomotive Games | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1998-07-17 | Ref.: 

Plane Crazy:
    Developer: Inner Workings | Publisher: Europress | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1998-09-30 | Ref.: 

Pocket Racer:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1996 | Release date: 

POD: Planet of Death:
    Developer: Ubisoft | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 1997-02-28 | Release date: 

Porsche Challenge:
    Developer: London Studio | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-04 | Ref.: 

Power Drive Rally:
    Developer: Rage Software | Publisher: Time Warner Interactive | Platforms: JAG | Release date: 1995-06 | Ref.: 

Power Rangers Zeo: Battle Racers:
    Developer: Natsume Co., Ltd. | Publisher: Bandai | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1996-09-17 | Ref.: 

Powerband:
    Developer: Gordon J. Key | Publisher: The Fourth Dimension | Platforms: ARC | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Powerslide:
    Developer: Ratbag Games | Publisher: GT Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1998-10 | Ref.: 

Prop Cycle:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1996 | Release date: 

Quad Challenge:
    Developer: Now Production | Publisher: Namco | Platforms: GEN | Release date: 1991-08-06 | Ref.: 

Quarantine:
    Developer: Imagexcel | Publisher: GameTek | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

Quattro Power Machines:
    Developer: Codemasters , Optimus Software | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: AMI, ATRST | Release date: 1993 | Ref.: 

R.C. Grand Prix:
    Developer: Absolute Entertainment | Publisher: SMS | Platforms: 1990 | Release date: 

R.C. Pro-Am II:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: Tradewest | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1992-12 | Ref.: 

R4: Ridge Racer Type 4:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: PS1 | Platforms: 1998-12-01 | Release date: 

Race America:
    Developer: Imagineering | Publisher: Absolute Entertainment | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Race Days:
    Developer: Gremlin Interactive | Publisher: GameTek | Platforms: GB | Release date: 1994-11 | Ref.: 

Race Drivin':
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1990 | Release date: 

Racing Damashii:
    Developer: Irem | Publisher: GB, PCE | Platforms: 1991-02-28 | Release date: 

Racing Lagoon:
    Developer: Square Enix | Publisher: Square | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-06-10 | Ref.: 

Racing Simulation 2:
    Developer: Ubisoft | Publisher: WIN, DC, N64, PS1 | Platforms: 1998 | Release date: 

Rad Mobile:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, SAT | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

Radikal Bikers:
    Developer: Gaelco , Bit Managers | Publisher: Atari Games , SNK , Infogrames | Platforms: Arcade, PS1 | Release date: 1998-05-18 | Ref.: 

Rage Racer:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: PS1 | Platforms: 1996-11-03 | Release date: 

Rally Challenge 2000:
    Developer: Genki , Xicat Interactive | Publisher: SouthPeak Games | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1999-08-06 | Ref.: 

Rally Cross:
    Developer: Sony Computer Entertainment | Publisher: PS1 | Platforms: 1997-01-31 | Release date: 

Rally Cross 2:
    Developer: Idol Minds , Cherry Leisure | Publisher: 989 Studios | Platforms: PS1, Arcade | Release date: 1998-10-31 | Ref.: 

Rapid Racer:
    Developer: Sony Computer Entertainment | Publisher: PS1 | Platforms: 1997-10 | Release date: 

Rave Racer:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1995-07-16 | Release date: 

Ray Tracers:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS1, PSN | Release date: 1997-01-17 | Ref.: 

Re-Volt:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios London , Big Bit, WeGo Interactive | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment , Throwback Entertainment , Big Bit, WeGo Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1, N64, DC, iOS, DROID, Arcade | Release date: 1999-03-09 | Ref.: 

Red Zone:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: AMI | Platforms: 1992 | Release date: 

Redline Racer / Suzuki Alstare Extreme Racing:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, DC, GBC | Release date: 1998-07-31 | Ref.: 

Ridge Racer:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade, PS1, PSP, MOBI, ZB | Platforms: 1993-10-30 | Release date: 

Ridge Racer 2:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade, PS1 | Platforms: 1994-06-08 | Release date: 

Road Burners:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Road Rage/Speed King:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade, PS1 | Platforms: 1995 | Release date: 

Road Rash:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: GEN | Release date: 1991-09 | Ref.: 

Road Rash 3:
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Publisher: 3DO, DOS, PS1, SAT | Platforms: 1995-05-15 | Release date: 

Road Rash 3D:
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Publisher: PS1 | Platforms: 1998-05-31 | Release date: 

Road Rash 64:
    Developer: Pacific Coast Power and Light | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1999-08-31 | Ref.: 

Road Rash II:
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Publisher: GEN | Platforms: 1993 | Release date: 

Road Riot 4WD:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1991 | Release date: 

Roadsters:
    Developer: Titus Interactive | Publisher: N64, PS1, DC, GBC | Platforms: 1999-10-30 | Release date: 

Rock & Roll Racing 2: Red Asphalt:
    Developer: Interplay | Publisher: Interplay | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998-1-13 | Ref.: 

Rock n' Roll Racing:
    Developer: Silicon & Synapse | Publisher: Interplay Entertainment | Platforms: SNES, GEN, GBA | Release date: 1993-06-04 | Ref.: 

Rogue Trip: Vacation 2012:
    Developer: SingleTrac | Publisher: GT Interactive | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998-10-6 | Ref.: 

Rollcage:
    Developer: Attention to Detail | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1999-03-24 | Ref.: 

Rough Racer:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1990 | Release date: 

RPM Racing:
    Developer: Silicon & Synapse | Publisher: Interplay Entertainment | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1991-10 | Ref.: 

Runabout:
    Developer: Climax Entertainment | Publisher: Media Rings | Platforms: PS1, PS2, DC, 3DS | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

Running Wild:
    Developer: Blue Shift Inc. | Publisher: 989 Studios | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998-10-07 | Ref.: 

Rush 2: Extreme Racing USA:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1998-10-10 | Ref.: 

Rush Hour:
    Developer: Clockwork Entertainment | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platforms: PS1, WIN | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

S.C.A.R.S.:
    Developer: Vivid Image | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS1, N64 | Release date: 1998-08-31 | Ref.: 

S40 Racing:
    Developer: Digital Illusions CE | Publisher: Volvo Cars | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1997-10 | Ref.: 

San Francisco Rush:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1996 | Ref.: 

San Francisco Rush 2049:
    Developer: Midway Games | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1999 | Release date: 

San Francisco Rush: Extreme Racing:
    Developer: Atari Games | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: Arcade, WIN, N64, PS1, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 1996-12-24 | Ref.: 

Satoru Nakajima F-1 Hero 2:
    Developer: Human Entertainment | Publisher: Varie | Platforms: NES | Release date: 1991-09-27 | Ref.: 

Satoru Nakajima F-1 Hero GB World Championship '91:
    Developer: Natsu System | Publisher: Varie | Platforms: GB | Release date: 1991-12-27 | Ref.: 

Scorcher:
    Developer: Reto-Moto | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment , Scavenger, Inc. | Platforms: DOS, WIN, SAT | Release date: 1996-11-30 | Ref.: 

Screamer:
    Developer: Graffiti | Publisher: Virgin Interactive , Interplay | Platforms: DOS, MAC, WIN | Release date: 1995-10-31 | Ref.: 

Screamer 2:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Virgin Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, DOS | Release date: 1996-09-30 | Ref.: 

Screamer Rally:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platforms: WIN, DOS | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

SCUD Race:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1996-01 | Ref.: 

SD F-1 Grand Prix:
    Developer: Video System | Publisher: SNES | Platforms: 1995-10-27 | Release date: 

Sega Game Pack 4 in 1:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: GG | Platforms: 1991 | Release date: 

Sega Rally 2:
    Developer: Sega AM5 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, DC | Release date: 1998-02-28 | Ref.: 

Sega Rally Championship:
    Developer: Sega AM5 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, SAT, WIN, NGE, GBA | Release date: 1994-10-11 | Ref.: 

Sega Touring Car Championship:
    Developer: Sega AM Annex | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, SAT, WIN | Release date: 1996-09-08 | Ref.: 

Skitchin':
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Publisher: GEN | Platforms: 1994 | Release date: 

SkyRoads:
    Developer: Bluemoon | Publisher: Creative Dimensions | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1993 | Ref.: 

Sled Storm:
    Developer: EA Canada | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-07-31 | Ref.: 

Slipstream 5000:
    Developer: The Software Refinery | Publisher: Gremlin Interactive | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

Snowboard Kids:
    Developer: Racjin | Publisher: Atlus , Sega | Platforms: N64, PS1 | Release date: 1997-12-12 | Ref.: 

Snowboard Kids 2:
    Developer: Racjin | Publisher: Atlus , Sega | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1999-02-19 | Ref.: 

SODA Off-Road Racing:
    Developer: Software Allies | Publisher: Sierra | Platforms: DOS, WIN | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

Sonic Drift:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: GG | Platforms: 1994-03-18 | Release date: 

Sonic Drift 2:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: GG | Platforms: 1995-03-17 | Release date: 

Sonic R:
    Developer: Traveller's Tales , Sonic Team | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: SAT, WIN, PS2, GCN | Release date: 1997-11-18 | Ref.: 

South Park Rally:
    Developer: Tantalus Media | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS1, N64, DC | Release date: 1999-12-13 | Ref.: 

Speed Busters:
    Developer: Ubi Soft Montreal | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: WIN, DC, MOBI | Release date: 1998-11-23 | Ref.: 

Speed Demons:
    Developer: EMG | Publisher: Microïds | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Speed Freaks:
    Developer: Funcom | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-09-15 | Ref.: 

Speed Haste:
    Developer: NoriaWorks Entertainment | Publisher: Friendware | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

Speed Power Gunbike:
    Developer: Inti Creates | Publisher: Sony Music Entertainment Japan | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998-04-23 | Ref.: 

Speed Racer:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1995-10-07 | Release date: 

Speed Racer (1996):
    Developer: Graphic Research | Publisher: Jaleco , Tomy | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1996-09-27 | Ref.: 

Speed Racer in My Most Dangerous Adventures:
    Developer: Radical Entertainment | Publisher: Accolade | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-11 | Ref.: 

Speed Racer in The Challenge of Racer X:
    Developer: Accolade | Publisher: DOS, GEN | Platforms: 1992 | Release date: 

Sports Car GT:
    Developer: Image Space , Westwood Studios | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1999-04-30 | Ref.: 

Sports Collection:
    Developer: Tose | Publisher: Tonkin House | Platforms: GB | Release date: 1996-09-27 | Ref.: 

Star Wars Episode I: Racer:
    Developer: LucasArts | Publisher: WIN, N64, GBC, MAC, DC, NX | Platforms: 1999-05-18 | Release date: 

Starwinder:
    Developer: Mindscape | Publisher: Mindscape , J-Wing | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1996-10-31 | Ref.: 

Street Rod 2:
    Developer: P.Z.Karen Co. Development Group, Logical Design Works | Publisher: California Dreams | Platforms: AMI, C64, DOS | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

Streets of SimCity:
    Developer: Maxis | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 1997 | Release date: 

Stunt Driver:
    Developer: Sphere, Inc. | Publisher: Spectrum HoloByte | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Stunt Race FX:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD , Argonaut Games | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-06-04 | Ref.: 

Stunts:
    Developer: Distinctive Software | Publisher: Mindscape , Broderbund | Platforms: DOS, AMI, PC98 | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Super Burnout:
    Developer: Shen Technologies SARL | Publisher: Atari Corporation | Platforms: JAG | Release date: 1995-07-05 | Ref.: 

Super Cars:
    Developer: Magnetic Fields | Publisher: Gremlin Graphics | Platforms: AMI, ATRST, CPC, C64, MSX, NES, ZX | Release date: 1990 | Ref.: 

Super Cars II:
    Developer: Magnetic Fields | Publisher: Gremlin Graphics | Platforms: ATRST, AMI, DOS | Release date: 1991 | Ref.: 

Super Chase: Criminal Termination:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Square Enix | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1992 | Ref.: 

Super Drift Out:
    Developer: Dragnet | Publisher: Visco Corporation | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-02-24 | Ref.: 

Super Kyotei:
    Developer: Nichibutsu | Publisher: Nihon Bussan | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-06-30 | Ref.: 

Super Mad Champ:
    Developer: Givro | Publisher: Tsukuda Original | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-03-04 | Ref.: 

Super Mario Kart:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: SNES, 3DS, WiiU, NX | Release date: 1992-08-27 | Ref.: 

Super R.C. Pro-Am:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GB | Release date: 1991-06 | Ref.: 

Super Skidmarks:
    Developer: Acid Software, Codemasters | Publisher: Acid Software, CDS Software | Platforms: AMI, AMI32, GEN | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

Supercross 2000:
    Developer: MBL Research | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: N64, PS1 | Release date: 1999-10-31 | Ref.: 

Supercross 3D:
    Developer: Tiertex Design Studios | Publisher: Atari Corporation | Platforms: JAG | Release date: 1995-12-15 | Ref.: 

SuperKarts:
    Developer: Manic Media | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

Supersonic Racers:
    Developer: Supersonic Software | Publisher: Mindscape | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1996-10-31 | Ref.: 

Suzuka 8 Hours:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arc System Works | Platforms: Arcade, SNES | Release date: 1992-10-10 | Ref.: 

Suzuka 8 Hours 2:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arc System Works | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 1993-11-04 | Ref.: 

Tank Racer:
    Developer: Square Enix Europe | Publisher: Grolier , R&P Electronic Media | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1999-03-30 | Ref.: 

Team Losi RC Racer:
    Developer: Gremlin Interactive | Publisher: Fox Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1998 | Ref.: 

Team Suzuki:
    Developer: Gremlin Graphics | Publisher: AMI, ATRST, DOS | Platforms: 1991 | Release date: 

Test Drive 4:
    Developer: Pitbull Syndicate | Publisher: Accolade | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1997-09-30 | Ref.: 

Test Drive 5:
    Developer: Pitbull Syndicate | Publisher: Accolade | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1998-09-30 | Ref.: 

Test Drive 6:
    Developer: Pitbull Syndicate | Publisher: Infogrames North America , Cryo Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC, DC | Release date: 1999-10-31 | Ref.: 

Test Drive III: The Passion:
    Developer: Accolade | Publisher: DOS | Platforms: 1990-04 | Release date: 

Test Drive: Off-Road:
    Developer: Elite Systems | Publisher: Accolade , Eidos Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1997-02 | Ref.: 

Test Drive: Off-Road 2:
    Developer: Pitbull Syndicate | Publisher: Accolade , Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1998-09-30 | Ref.: 

Test Drive: Off-Road 3:
    Developer: Infogrames North America , Xantera | Publisher: Infogrames North America , Infogrames Multimedia | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC | Release date: 1999-10-31 | Ref.: 

Thrash Rally:
    Developer: ADK | Publisher: Arcade, NEO, NEOCD, NX, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 1991-11-08 | Release date: 

Thrill Drive:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 1998 | Release date: 

Thunder Truck Rally:
    Developer: Reflections Interactive | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1997-05-31 | Ref.: 

TNN Motorsports Hardcore Heat:
    Developer: CRI | Publisher: ASC Games | Platforms: DC | Release date: 1999-08-07 | Ref.: 

TOCA 2 Touring Cars:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS1 | Platforms: 1998-12 | Release date: 

TOCA Touring Car Championship:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: 3DO | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC | Release date: 1997-11 | Ref.: 

Tokyo Highway Battle:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Jaleco | Platforms: PS1, SAT | Release date: 1996-05-03 | Ref.: 

Tokyo Road Race:
    Developer:  | Publisher:  | Platforms:  | Release date: 1996 | Ref.: 

Tokyo Xtreme Racer:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Crave Entertainment | Platforms: DC, PSP | Release date: 1999-06-24 | Ref.: 

Top Gear:
    Developer: Gremlin | Publisher: Kemco | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1992-04-16 | Ref.: 

Top Gear 2:
    Developer: Gremlin Interactive | Publisher: Kemco | Platforms: SNES, GEN, AMI, AMI32 | Release date: 1993-08-08 | Ref.: 

Top Gear 3000:
    Developer: Gremlin | Publisher: Kemco | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1995-02 | Ref.: 

Top Gear Overdrive:
    Developer: Snowblind Studios | Publisher: Kemco | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1998-11-23 | Ref.: 

Top Gear Pocket:
    Developer: Vision Works | Publisher: Kemco | Platforms: GBC | Release date: 1999-03-25 | Ref.: 

Top Gear Rally:
    Developer: Boss Game Studios | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: N64, GBC, GBA | Release date: 1997-10 | Ref.: 

Top Gear Rally 2:
    Developer: Saffire | Publisher: Kemco | Platforms: N64, GBC | Release date: 1999-12-03 | Ref.: 

TORCS:
    Developer: Bernhard Wymann | Publisher: Microsoft | Platforms: LIN, BSD, MAC, AmiOS, WIN | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

Total Drivin:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997-09-30 | Ref.: 

Toyota Celica GT:
    Developer: Gremlin Interactive | Publisher: AMI, CPC, DOS, ZX | Platforms: 1990 | Release date: 

TrickStyle:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, DC | Release date: 1999 | Ref.: 

Twisted Metal:
    Developer: 989 Studios SingleTrac | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1, WIN | Release date: 1995-11-10 | Ref.: 

Twisted Metal 2:
    Developer: 989 Studios SingleTrac | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1, WIN | Release date: 1996-11-8 | Ref.: 

Twisted Metal 4:
    Developer: 989 Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1999-11-16 | Ref.: 

Twisted Metal III:
    Developer: 989 Studios | Publisher: 989 Studios | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1998-11-10 | Ref.: 

Uchuu Race: Astro Go! Go!:
    Developer: KAZe | Publisher: Meldac | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-02-25 | Ref.: 

Ultimate Race Pro:
    Developer: Kalisto Entertainment | Publisher: MicroProse | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

Uniracers:
    Developer: DMA Design | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: SNES | Release date: 1994-12 | Ref.: 

V-Rally:
    Developer: Infogrames , Inskor | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC, N64 | Release date: 1997-07 | Ref.: 

V-Rally 2:
    Developer: Eden Studios | Publisher: Infogrames , Electronic Arts , Spike | Platforms: WIN, PS1, DC | Release date: 1999-06-30 | Ref.: 

V-Rally: Edition 99:
    Developer: Eden Studios | Publisher: Infogrames , Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, N64 | Release date: 1998-12-07 | Ref.: 

Vangers:
    Developer: K-D Lab | Publisher: Interactive Magic | Platforms: WIN, MAC, LIN, BSD | Release date: 1998-06 | Ref.: 

Vigilante 8:
    Developer: LuxoFlux | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS1, N64, GBC | Release date: 1998-01-06 | Ref.: 

Viper Racing:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 1998 | Ref.: 

Virtua Racing:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, GEN, S32X, SAT, WIN, PS2 | Release date: 1992-08 | Ref.: 

Virtua Racing Deluxe:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega , Sega Sports | Platforms: S32X | Release date: 1994 | Ref.: 

Virtual Karts:
    Developer: MPS Labs | Publisher: MicroProse | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

VMX Racing:
    Developer: Studio e | Publisher: Playmates Interactive Ent. | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

VR Sports Powerboat Racing:
    Developer: Promethean Designs | Publisher: VR Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 1998 | Ref.: 

Vroom:
    Developer: Lankhor | Publisher: AMI | Platforms: 1991 | Release date: 

Wacky Wheels:
    Developer: Beavis Soft | Publisher: Apogee Software | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1994-10-17 | Ref.: 

Wave Race:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GB | Release date: 1992-07 | Ref.: 

Wave Race 64:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1996-09-27 | Ref.: 

Wipeout:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: WIN, DOS, PS1, SAT | Platforms: 1995-09-29 | Release date: 

Wipeout 2097:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: WIN, PS1, SAT, AmiOS, MAC, AMI | Platforms: 1996-09-30 | Release date: 

Wipeout 3:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: PS1 | Platforms: 1999-09-08 | Release date: 

Wipeout 64:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1998-11-10 | Ref.: 

World Driver Championship:
    Developer: Boss Game Studios | Publisher: Midway | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 1999-05-31 | Ref.: 

World Rally Fever:
    Developer: Team17 | Publisher: Ocean Software | Platforms: WIN, DOS | Release date: 1996 | Ref.: 

World Tour Racing:
    Developer: Krisalis Software | Publisher: Telegames | Platforms: JAGCD | Release date: 1997-06 | Ref.: 

XCar: Experimental Racing:
    Developer: Bad Dog | Publisher: Bethesda Softworks | Platforms: DOS | Release date: 1997 | Ref.: 

Xtreme Racing:
    Developer: Tuna Technologies | Publisher: Black Magic Software | Platforms: AMI | Release date: 1995 | Ref.: 

Zero4 Champ DooZy-J Type-R:
    Developer: Media Rings | Publisher: WIN, PS1, PS3, PSP, PSV, PSN | Platforms: 1997-06-20 | Release date: 

Zero4 Champ RR:
    Developer: Media Rings | Publisher: SNES | Platforms: 1994-07-22 | Release date: 

Zero4 Champ RR-Z:
    Developer: Media Rings | Publisher: SNES | Platforms: 1995-11-25 | Release date: 

Zone Raiders:
    Developer: Image Space Incorporated | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platforms: DOS, MAC | Release date: 1995-11-30 | Ref.: 

007 Racing:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: EA Games | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000-11-20 | Ref.: 

18 Wheeler: American Pro Trucker:
    Developer: Sega AM2 Acclaim Studios Cheltenham | Publisher: Sega Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: Arcade, DC, PS2, GCN | Release date: 2000-07-26 | Ref.: 

18 Wheels of Steel:
    Developer: SCS Software | Publisher: ValuSoft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2002-08-31 | Ref.: 

18 Wheels of Steel: Haulin':
    Developer: SCS Software | Publisher: ValuSoft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006-12-08 | Ref.: 

187 Ride or Die:
    Developer: Ubisoft Paris | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-08-23 | Ref.: 

2 Fast 2 Furious:
    Developer: Digital Bridges | Publisher: dbi Games | Platforms: MOBI | Release date: 2004 | Ref.: [ 1 ]

2XL ATV Offroad:
    Developer: 2XL Games | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2009-10-08 | Release date: 

2XL Supercross:
    Developer: 2XL Games | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2009-04-01 | Release date: 

4 Wheel Thunder:
    Developer: Kalisto Entertainment | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: DC | Release date: 2000-05-04 | Ref.: 

4x4 EVO 2:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Publisher: Gathering of Developers Universal Interactive BAM! Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2001-10-30 | Ref.: 

4x4 Evolution:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Publisher: Gathering of Developers | Platforms: WIN, PS2, DC, MAC | Release date: 2000-10-29 | Ref.: 

Crash Time III:
    Developer: Synetic | Publisher: RTL | Platforms: WIN, X360 | Release date: 2009-11-27 | Ref.: 

Alfa Romeo Racing Italiano:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Valcon Games, Black Bean Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-06-24 | Ref.: 

All Star Racing 2:
    Developer: Mud Duck Productions | Publisher: Midas Interactive, Kung Fu Games | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2003-04-24 | Ref.: 

American Chopper 2: Full Throttle:
    Developer: Activision Value | Publisher: Creat Studios | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2005-11-20 | Ref.: 

American Chopper:
    Developer: Activision Value | Publisher: Creat Studios | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-11-25 | Ref.: 

Antz Extreme Racing:
    Developer: Supersonic Software | Publisher: Empire Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GBA | Release date: 2002-07-26 | Ref.: 

APEX / Racing Evoluzione:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2003-02-18 | Ref.: 

Aqua Moto Racing:
    Developer: Resolution Interactive | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2009-03-07 | Release date: 

Arctic Thunder:
    Developer: Midway Games | Publisher: Arcade, PS2, XBOX | Platforms: 2000-12-01 | Release date: 

Armagetron Advanced:
    Developer: Dave Fancella | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, OSX, LIN | Release date: 2001 | Ref.: 

Asphalt 3: Street Rules:
    Developer: Gameloft Shanghai | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: WMO, SYM, DROID | Release date: 2006 | Ref.: 

Asphalt 4: Elite Racing:
    Developer: Gameloft Paris | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: BB10, iOS, SYM, DS | Release date: 2008-08-28 | Ref.: 

Asphalt 5:
    Developer: Gameloft Bucharest | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: iOS, webOS, DROID, SYM, Bada, WP | Release date: 2009-11-02 | Ref.: 

Asphalt Urban GT:
    Developer: Gameloft Paris | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: MOBI, NGE, DS | Release date: 2004-11-15 | Ref.: 

Asphalt: Urban GT 2:
    Developer: Gameloft Montreal, Virtuos , Game Source | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: MOBI, NGE, DS, PSP | Release date: 2005-11-30 | Ref.: 

ATV Offroad Fury:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-02-05 | Ref.: 

ATV Offroad Fury 2:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-11-09 | Ref.: 

ATV Offroad Fury 3:
    Developer: Climax Studios | Publisher: NA : Sony Computer Entertainment EU : SouthPeak Games | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2004-11-02 | Ref.: 

ATV Offroad Fury 4:
    Developer: Climax Racing | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2006-10-31 | Ref.: 

ATV Offroad Fury Pro:
    Developer: Climax Racing | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2006-10-26 | Ref.: 

ATV Offroad Fury: Blazin' Trails:
    Developer: Climax Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment , SouthPeak Games | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2005-04-19 | Ref.: 

ATV: Quad Frenzy:
    Developer: Skyworks Technologies | Publisher: Majesco Entertainment | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2005-11-14 | Ref.: 

ATV: Quad Power Racing:
    Developer: Climax Development Tantalus | Publisher: Acclaim Sports | Platforms: PS1, GBA | Release date: 2000-08-23 | Ref.: 

ATV: Quad Power Racing 2:
    Developer: Climax Brighton | Publisher: AKA Acclaim | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-01-13 | Ref.: 

Audiosurf:
    Developer: Dylan Fitterer | Publisher: Valve | Platforms: WIN, Zune | Release date: 2008-02-15 | Ref.: 

Auto Modellista:
    Developer: Capcom Production Studio 1 | Publisher: Capcom | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-08-22 | Ref.: 

Auxiliary Power's Demolition Derby and Figure 8 Race:
    Developer: Auxiliary Power, John C. Ardussi | Publisher: Auxiliary Power | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2001-10-01 | Ref.: 

Baja: Edge of Control:
    Developer: 2XL Games | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-09-22 | Ref.: 

Ballistics:
    Developer: Grin | Publisher: Xicat Interactive | Platforms: Arcade, LIN, WIN | Release date: 2001-10-19 | Ref.: 

Bandits: Phoenix Rising:
    Developer: Grin | Publisher: Pan Vision, Tri Synergy | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2002-10-04 | Ref.: 

Banjo-Pilot:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2005-01-12 | Ref.: 

Batman: Gotham City Racer:
    Developer: Sinister Games | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2001-04-19 | Ref.: 

Battle Gear 3:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade, PS2 | Platforms: 2002-11 | Release date: 

Battle Gear 3 Tuned:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: PS2, Arcade | Platforms: 2003-12-15 | Release date: 

Battle Gear 4:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2005-07 | Release date: 

Battle Gear 4 Tuned:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2005-07 | Release date: 

Beam Breakers:
    Developer: Similis | Publisher: JoWooD Productions | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2002-09-27 | Ref.: 

Beetle Crazy Cup:
    Developer: Xpiral | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-02 | Ref.: 

Big Air Freestyle:
    Developer: Paradigm Entertainment | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: GCN | Release date: 2002-09-13 | Ref.: 

Big Bumpin':
    Developer: Blitz Games | Publisher: King Games | Platforms: XBOX, X360 | Release date: 2006-11-19 | Ref.: 

Big Mutha Truckers:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Empire Interactive THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN, GBA, DS | Release date: 2002-11-27 | Ref.: 

Big Mutha Truckers 2: Truck Me Harder:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Empire Interactive THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-06-24 | Ref.: 

Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing:
    Developer: Stellar Stone | Publisher: GameMill Publishing | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2003-11-20 | Ref.: 

Big Scale Racing:
    Developer: BumbleBeast | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2002 | Ref.: 

Bigfoot: Collision Course:
    Developer: Destination Software | Publisher: Zoo Games | Platforms: WIN, DS, Wii | Release date: 2008-10-28 | Ref.: 

Billy the Wizard: Rocket Broomstick Racing:
    Developer: Data Design Interactive | Publisher: Conspiracy Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, Wii, PS2 | Release date: 2006-01-27 | Ref.: 

BMX XXX:
    Developer: Z-Axis | Publisher: AKA Acclaim | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-11-12 | Ref.: 

Bomberman Kart:
    Developer: Racjin | Publisher: Hudson Soft | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-12-20 | Ref.: 

Build 'n Race:
    Developer: Icon Games Entertainment | Publisher: Zoo Games | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2009-08-04 | Ref.: 

Burning Tires 3D:
    Developer: Deep Silver | Publisher: Deep Silver Fishlabs | Platforms: iOS, DROID, SYM | Release date: 2009-01-13 | Ref.: 

Crash Time II:
    Developer: Synetic GmbH | Publisher: RTL Interactive | Platforms: WIN, X360 | Release date: 2008-11-27 | Ref.: 

Burnout:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2001-11-01 | Ref.: 

Burnout 2: Point of Impact:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-09-30 | Ref.: 

Burnout 3: Takedown:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-09-07 | Ref.: 

Burnout Dominator:
    Developer: EA UK | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS2, PSP | Release date: 2007-03-06 | Ref.: 

Burnout Legends:
    Developer: Criterion Games , Visual Impact | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PSP, DS | Release date: 2005-09-13 | Ref.: 

Burnout Paradise:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-01-22 | Ref.: 

Burnout Revenge:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, X360 | Release date: 2005-09-13 | Ref.: 

Bus Simulator /Bus Simulator 2008:
    Developer: Ice Bytes Game Development | Publisher: GSP Software | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2007-12-13 | Ref.: [ 2 ]

Butt-Ugly Martians: Zoom or Doom:
    Developer: Runecraft | Publisher: Vivendi Universal Games Crave Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, GCN | Release date: 2002-12-06 | Ref.: 

Buzz! Junior: Ace Racers:
    Developer: Cohort Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2008-10-24 | Ref.: 

Cabela's 4x4 Off-Road Adventure:
    Developer: Fun Labs | Publisher: Activision Value | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2001-02 | Ref.: 

Carmageddon TDR 2000:
    Developer: Torus Games | Publisher: Sales Curve Interactive , Xicat Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-09-01 | Ref.: 

Cars:
    Developer: Locomotive Games , Rainbow Studios , Helixe , Beenox | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, X360, GCN, Wii, GBA, DS, PSP, OSX | Release date: 2006-06-06 | Ref.: 

Cars Mater-National Championship:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PS3, X360, Wii, DS, GBA | Release date: 2007-10-29 | Ref.: 

Cars Race-O-Rama:
    Developer: Incinerator Studios , Tantalus Media | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS2, PS3, X360, Wii, PSP, DS | Release date: 2009-10-12 | Ref.: 

Cars: Radiator Springs Adventures:
    Developer: AWE Games, Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, OSX | Release date: 2006-06-06 | Ref.: 

CART Fury Championship Racing:
    Developer: Midway Games | Publisher: Arcade, PS2 | Platforms: 2000 | Release date: 

Cartoon Network Racing:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: The Game Factory | Platforms: DS, PS2 | Release date: 2006-12-04 | Ref.: 

Cartoon Network Speedway:
    Developer: DC Studios | Publisher: Majesco Sales | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2003-11-17 | Ref.: 

Carve:
    Developer: Argonaut Games | Publisher: Global Star Software | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2004-02-24 | Ref.: 

Castrol Honda VTR:
    Developer: Interactive Entertainment | Publisher: Bubble Boy, Midas Games | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2001-02-09 | Ref.: 

Cel Damage:
    Developer: Pseudo Interactive | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Play It | Platforms: XBOX, GCN, PS2 | Release date: 2001-11-15 | Ref.: 

Charinko Hero:
    Developer: Banpresto | Publisher: GCN | Platforms: 2003-07-17 | Release date: 

Chase H.Q. 2:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Square Enix | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2007-12 | Ref.: 

Chase: Hollywood Stunt Driver:
    Developer: I-Imagine Interactive | Publisher: BAM! Entertainment | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2002-09-25 | Ref.: 

ChoroQ:
    Developer: Barnhouse Effect | Publisher: Atlus | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2003-11-27 | Ref.: 

Chrysler Classic Racing:
    Developer: Extra Mile Studios | Publisher: Zoo Entertainment | Platforms: Wii, DS | Release date: 2008-11-18 | Ref.: 

Circus Maximus: Chariot Wars:
    Developer: Kodiak Interactive | Publisher: Encore, Inc. | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2002-02-24 | Ref.: 

Classic British Motor Racing:
    Developer: Data Design Interactive | Publisher: Bold Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, Wii | Release date: 2008-01-02 | Ref.: 

Cocoto Kart Racer:
    Developer: Neko Entertainment | Publisher: BigBen Interactive , Conspiracy Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, GBA, GCN, DS, PS2, Wii | Release date: 2005 | Ref.: 

Colin McRae Rally 04:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Platforms: 2003-09-19 | Release date: 

Colin McRae Rally 2.0:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS1, GBA | Platforms: 2000-07-07 | Release date: 

Colin McRae Rally 2005:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX, OSX, PSP | Platforms: 2004-09-28 | Release date: 

Colin McRae Rally 3:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Platforms: 2002-10-25 | Release date: 

Colin McRae: Dirt:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS3, X360 | Platforms: 2007-06-15 | Release date: 

Colin McRae: Dirt 2:
    Developer: Codemasters , Sumo Digital , Firebrand Games , Feral Interactive | Publisher: Codemasters , SCEE , Namco Bandai , Feral Interactive | Platforms: WIN, DS, PS3, PSP, Wii, X360, OSX | Release date: 2009-09-08 | Ref.: 

Corvette:
    Developer: Steel Monkeys, Visual Impact | Publisher: TDK Mediactive , Global Star Software | Platforms: WIN, GBA, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-11-11 | Ref.: 

Corvette Evolution GT:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Valcon Games, Black Bean Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, DS | Release date: 2006-05-12 | Ref.: 

Crash 'N' Burn:
    Developer: Climax Racing | Publisher: Eidos Interactive | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-11-15 | Ref.: 

Crash Bandicoot Nitro Kart 3D:
    Developer: Polarbit | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: MOBI | Release date: 2008-06-09 | Ref.: 

Crash Nitro Kart:
    Developer: Vicarious Visions | Publisher: Universal Interactive | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN, GBA, NGE, MOBI | Release date: 2003-11-11 | Ref.: 

Crash Tag Team Racing:
    Developer: Radical Entertainment | Publisher: Vivendi Universal Games | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN, PSP | Release date: 2005-10-19 | Ref.: 

Crash Time: Autobahn Pursuit:
    Developer: Synetic GmbH | Publisher: EU : RTL Interactive NA : Crave Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, X360 | Release date: 2007-11-07 | Ref.: 

Crashday:
    Developer: Replay Studios , Moonbyte Games | Publisher: Atari SA | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006-02-23 | Ref.: 

Crazy Frog Racer:
    Developer: Neko Entertainment | Publisher: Digital Jesters | Platforms: WIN, PS2, DS, GBA | Release date: 2005 | Ref.: 

Crazy Frog Racer 2:
    Developer: Neko Entertainment | Publisher: Valcon Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2007-09-04 | Ref.: 

Crazy Taxi 2:
    Developer: Hitmaker | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: DC, PSP | Release date: 2001-05-28 | Ref.: 

Crazy Taxi 3: High Roller:
    Developer: Hitmaker | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: WIN, XBOX, Arcade | Release date: 2002-07-24 | Ref.: 

Crazy Taxi: Fare Wars:
    Developer: Hitmaker , Sniper Studios | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2007-08-07 | Ref.: 

Crazyracing Kartrider:
    Developer: Nexon | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2004-06-01 | Release date: 

Cro-Mag Rally:
    Developer: Pangea Software | Publisher: Aspyr | Platforms: MAC, OSX, iOS, WP, X360, DROID | Release date: 2000-10 | Ref.: 

Cross Racing Championship Extreme 2005:
    Developer: Invictus Games | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2005 | Release date: 

Cruis'n:
    Developer: Just Games Interactive | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2007-11-27 | Ref.: 

Cruis'n Velocity:
    Developer: Graphic State | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2001-11-30 | Ref.: 

Crusty Demons:
    Developer: Climax Studios | Publisher: Deep Silver | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2006-06-27 | Ref.: 

Dakar 2: The World's Ultimate Rally:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Cheltenham | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-03-07 | Ref.: 

Darkwind: War on Wheels:
    Developer: Sam Redfern | Publisher: Psychic Software | Platforms: LIN, WIN, OSX | Release date: 2007-04-05 | Ref.: 

Dash of Destruction:
    Developer: NinjaBee | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2008-12-17 | Ref.: 

Dave Mirra Freestyle BMX:
    Developer: Z-Axis | Publisher: Acclaim Max Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC, DC | Release date: 2000-09-26 | Ref.: 

Dave Mirra Freestyle BMX 2:
    Developer: Z-Axis | Publisher: Acclaim Max Sports | Platforms: PS2, GCN, GBA, XBOX | Release date: 2001-08-27 | Ref.: 

Dave Mirra Freestyle BMX 3:
    Developer: Full Fat | Publisher: AKA Acclaim | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2002-11-26 | Ref.: 

Daytona USA 2001:
    Developer: Amusement Vision , Genki | Publisher: Sega , Hasbro Interactive , Infogrames | Platforms: DC | Release date: 2000-12-21 | Ref.: 

Death Track: Resurrection:
    Developer: SkyFallen Entertainment | Publisher: 1C Company | Platforms: WIN, PS3, PSN | Release date: 2008-02-22 | Ref.: 

Deca Sports:
    Developer: Hudson Soft | Publisher: Wii | Platforms: 2008-03-19 | Release date: 

Derby Tsuku 4: Derby Uma o Tsukurō!:
    Developer: Smilebit | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2004-12-02 | Ref.: 

Destruction Derby Arenas:
    Developer: Studio 33 | Publisher: SCEE | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2004-01-09 | Ref.: 

Destruction Derby Raw:
    Developer: Studio 33 | Publisher: SCEE , Midway Games | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000-06-30 | Ref.: 

Dhaka Racing:
    Developer: eSophers | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2002-03-02 | Release date: 

Digimon Racing:
    Developer: Griptonite Games | Publisher: Bandai | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2004-04-01 | Ref.: 

Dirt Track Racing:
    Developer: Ratbag Games | Publisher: WizardWorks Software | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Dirt Track Racing 2:
    Developer: Ratbag Games | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2002-09-01 | Release date: 

Dirt Track Racing: Sprint Cars:
    Developer: Ratbag Games | Publisher: WizardWorks | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Disney Magicboard Online:
    Developer: Shanda | Publisher: The Walt Disney Company | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2007-12-10 | Ref.: 

Disney's Herbie: Fully Loaded:
    Developer: Climax Group | Publisher: Buena Vista Games | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2005-06-21 | Ref.: 

Crash-Course Domo:
    Developer: NHK | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2009-10-19 | Ref.: 

Donkey Kong Barrel Blast:
    Developer: Paon | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2007-06-28 | Ref.: 

Dotstream:
    Developer: Skip Ltd. | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2006-07-13 | Ref.: 

Downhill Domination:
    Developer: Incognito Entertainment | Publisher: SCEA , Codemasters | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2003-07-22 | Ref.: 

Downtown Run:
    Developer: Ubi Soft Romania | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: WIN, PS2, GCN, MOBI | Release date: 2003-03-28 | Ref.: 

Drag Racer:
    Developer: XMG Studio , Phantom Games | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2003 | Release date: 

DrawRace:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2009 | Release date: 

Drift City:
    Developer: NPluto | Publisher: WIN, iOS, DROID | Platforms: 2007-08-01 | Release date: 

Driift Mania:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Wii | Platforms: 2009-07-31 | Release date: 

Driven:
    Developer: Crawfish Interactive | Publisher: BAM! Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, GCN, GBA | Release date: 2001-11-06 | Ref.: 

Driver 2:
    Developer: Reflections Interactive , Sennari Interactive | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS1, GBA | Release date: 2000-11-13 | Ref.: 

Driver 3:
    Developer: Reflections Interactive | Publisher: Atari SA | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GBA | Release date: 2004-06-21 | Ref.: 

Driver: L.A. Undercover:
    Developer: Gameloft Montreal | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: MOBI | Release date: 2007-05-11 | Ref.: 

Driver: Vegas:
    Developer: Gameloft | Publisher: Glu Mobile | Platforms: MOBI | Release date: 2006 | Ref.: 

Driving Emotion Type-S:
    Developer: Escape | Publisher: Square Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2000-03-30 | Ref.: 

Drome Racers:
    Developer: Attention to Detail, Möbius Entertainment | Publisher: Electronic Arts , Lego Interactive , THQ | Platforms: WIN, GCN, GBA, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2002-11-20 | Ref.: 

DT Racer:
    Developer: Axis Entertainment | Publisher: XS Games | Platforms: PS2, PSP | Release date: 2005-09-26 | Ref.: 

Ducati Moto:
    Developer: 4J Studios | Publisher: Bethesda Softworks | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2008-07-01 | Ref.: 

The Dukes of Hazzard II: Daisy Dukes It Out:
    Developer: Sinister Games | Publisher: SouthPeak Interactive | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000-11-07 | Ref.: 

The Dukes of Hazzard: Return of the General Lee:
    Developer: Ratbag Games | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-09-28 | Ref.: 

E-racer:
    Developer: Rage Software | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2001-04-27 | Release date: 

EA Sports NASCAR Racing:
    Developer: EA Tiburon | Publisher: Global VR | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2007 | Ref.: 

Earache: Extreme Metal Racing:
    Developer: Data Design Interactive | Publisher: WIN, PS2, Wii | Platforms: 2006-10-27 | Release date: 

Elasto Mania:
    Developer: Balázs Rózsa | Publisher: Independent | Platforms: WIN, BEOS, iOS | Release date: 2000-01 | Ref.: 

Emergency Heroes:
    Developer: Ubisoft Reflections , Ubisoft Barcelona | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2008-05-27 | Ref.: 

Enthusia Professional Racing:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: PS2 | Platforms: 2005-03-17 | Release date: 

Euro Truck Simulator:
    Developer: SCS Software | Publisher: Meridian4 | Platforms: WIN, OSX | Release date: 2008-08-06 | Ref.: 

Excite Truck:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2006-11-19 | Ref.: 

Excitebike 64:
    Developer: Left Field Productions | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: N64, WiiU | Release date: 2000-04-30 | Ref.: 

Excitebike: World Rally:
    Developer: Monster Games , Nintendo SPD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2009-11-09 | Ref.: 

Excitebots: Trick Racing:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2009-04-20 | Ref.: 

Extreme-G 3:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Cheltenham | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, GCN | Release date: 2001-08-21 | Ref.: 

F-Zero AX:
    Developer: Amusement Vision | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2003-07 | Ref.: 

F-Zero Climax:
    Developer: Suzak | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2004-10-21 | Ref.: 

F-Zero GX:
    Developer: Amusement Vision | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GCN | Release date: 2003-07-25 | Ref.: 

F-Zero: GP Legend:
    Developer: Suzak | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2003-11-28 | Ref.: 

F-Zero: Maximum Velocity:
    Developer: NDcube | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2001-03-21 | Ref.: 

F1 2000:
    Developer: Image Space Incorporated , Visual Sciences | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 2000-01-06 | Ref.: 

F1 2009:
    Developer: Sumo Digital | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: Wii, PSP, iOS | Release date: 2009-11-17 | Ref.: 

F1 Challenge '99-'02:
    Developer: Image Space Incorporated , Visual Science | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, MAC, PS1, PS2, XBOX, GCN, GBA | Release date: 2003-06-24 | Ref.: 

F1 Championship Season 2000:
    Developer: Image Space Incorporated , Visual Sciences | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, MAC, PS1, PS2, GBC | Release date: 2000-09-30 | Ref.: 

F1 Grand Prix:
    Developer: Traveller's Tales | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2005-09-01 | Ref.: 

F1 Manager:
    Developer: Intelligent Games | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-10-13 | Ref.: 

F1 Racing Championship:
    Developer: Video System | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: WIN, PS1, PS2, N64, DC, GBC | Release date: 2000-04 | Ref.: 

F1 World Grand Prix 2000:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Eidos Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 2001-03-08 | Ref.: 

Family Slot Car Racing:
    Developer: Arc System Works | Publisher: Aksys Games | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2009-02-10 | Ref.: 

Fast & Furious:
    Developer: Firemint Pty | Publisher: I-play | Platforms: iOS | Release date: 2009-03 | Ref.: [ 3 ]

The Fast and the Furious:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Namco Bandai Games | Platforms: PS2, PSP | Release date: 2006-09-26 | Ref.: 

Fast and the Furious DRIFT, The:
    Developer: Raw Thrills | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2007 | Release date: 

Fast and the Furious: Super Bikes, The:
    Developer: Raw Thrills | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2006 | Release date: 

Faster Than Speed:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Sammy Corporation | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2004 | Ref.: 

Fatal Inertia:
    Developer: Koei | Publisher: PS3, X360 | Platforms: 2007-09-30 | Release date: 

Ferrari Challenge: Trofeo Pirelli:
    Developer: Eutechnyx , Firebrand Games | Publisher: System 3 | Platforms: PS2, PS3, Wii, DS | Release date: 2008-01-26 | Ref.: 

Ferrari GT: Evolution:
    Developer: Gameloft Bucharest | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: iOS, MOBI, DS, SYM | Release date: 2008 | Ref.: 

Firebugs:
    Developer: Attention to Detail | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2002-10-18 | Ref.: 

Fired Up:
    Developer: London Studio | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2005-09-01 | Ref.: 

FlatOut:
    Developer: Bugbear Entertainment | Publisher: Empire Interactive , Konami | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-11-05 | Ref.: 

FlatOut 2:
    Developer: Bugbear Entertainment | Publisher: Empire Interactive , Konami | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, OSX | Release date: 2006-06-30 | Ref.: 

FlatOut: Ultimate Carnage:
    Developer: Bugbear Entertainment | Publisher: Empire Interactive | Platforms: X360, WIN, PSP | Release date: 2007-07-22 | Ref.: 

Ford Mustang: The Legend Lives:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: 2K Games | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-04-19 | Ref.: 

Ford Racing:
    Developer: Elite Systems , HME Inc. | Publisher: Empire Interactive | Platforms: Arcade, WIN, PS1 | Release date: 2000-11-02 | Ref.: 

Ford Racing 2:
    Developer: Razorworks | Publisher: Empire Interactive , Gotham Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-10-28 | Ref.: 

Ford Racing 3:
    Developer: Razorworks | Publisher: 2K Games , Empire Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GBA, DS | Release date: 2004-10-29 | Ref.: 

Ford Racing Off Road:
    Developer: Razorworks | Publisher: Xplosiv | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PSP, Wii | Release date: 2008-03-21 | Ref.: 

Ford Street Racing:
    Developer: Razorworks | Publisher: Empire Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PSP, XBOX | Release date: 2006-09-19 | Ref.: 

Ford vs. Chevy:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Global Star Software , 2K Games | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-11-09 | Ref.: 

F1 2004:
    Developer: Studio Liverpool | Publisher: SCEE | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2004-09-22 | Ref.: 

F1 2005:
    Developer: Studio Liverpool | Publisher: SCEE | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2005-07-01 | Ref.: 

F1 2006:
    Developer: Studio Liverpool | Publisher: SCEE | Platforms: PS2, PSP | Release date: 2006-07-28 | Ref.: 

Formula One 2000:
    Developer: Studio 33 | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: PS1, GBC | Release date: 2000-10-04 | Ref.: 

F1 2001:
    Developer: Studio 33 , Studio Liverpool | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment , 989 Studios | Platforms: PS1, PS2 | Release date: 2001-04-20 | Ref.: 

F1 2002:
    Developer: Studio Liverpool | Publisher: SCEE | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-11-01 | Ref.: 

F1 2003:
    Developer: Studio Liverpool | Publisher: SCEE | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2003-07-11 | Ref.: 

Formula One Arcade:
    Developer: Studio 33 | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2002-07-19 | Ref.: 

Formula One Championship Edition:
    Developer: Studio Liverpool | Publisher: SCEE | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2006-12-28 | Ref.: 

Forza Motorsport:
    Developer: Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2005-05-03 | Ref.: 

Forza Motorsport 2:
    Developer: Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2007-05-24 | Ref.: 

Forza Motorsport 3:
    Developer: Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2009-10-22 | Ref.: 

Freaky Flyers:
    Developer: Midway Games | Publisher: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Platforms: 2003-08-05 | Release date: 

Freekstyle:
    Developer: Page 44 Studios | Publisher: EA Sports Big | Platforms: PS2, GCN, GBA | Release date: 2002-06-17 | Ref.: 

Fuel:
    Developer: Asobo Studio | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-06-02 | Ref.: 

Full Auto:
    Developer: Pseudo Interactive | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2006-02-10 | Ref.: 

Full Auto 2: Battlelines:
    Developer: Pseudo Interactive | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: PS3, PSP | Release date: 2006-12-07 | Ref.: 

G-Surfers:
    Developer: Blade Interactive | Publisher: Majesco Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-01-25 | Ref.: 

G1 Jockey:
    Developer: Koei | Publisher: PS1, PS2, PS3, Wii | Platforms: 2001 | Release date: 

Gekitotsu Toma L'Arc: TomaRunner vs L'Arc-en-Ciel:
    Developer: SCEI | Publisher: PS1 | Platforms: 2000-07-19 d1 | Release date: 

Glimmerati:
    Developer: Bugbear Entertainment | Publisher: Nokia | Platforms: NGE | Release date: 2005-07-07 | Ref.: 

GP Challenge:
    Developer: Midas Interactive Entertainment | Publisher: PS1 | Platforms: 2002-04-12 | Release date: 

Gran Turismo Portable:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2009-10-01 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo 3: A-Spec:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-04-28 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo 4:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2004-12-28 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo 5 Prologue:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2007-12-13 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo Concept:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-01-01 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo HD Concept:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2006-12-24 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix 3:
    Developer: MicroProse | Publisher: Hasbro Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-06 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix 4:
    Developer: MicroProse | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2002-06-21 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix Challenge:
    Developer: Infogrames Melbourne House | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-11-22 | Ref.: 

Grand Touring:
    Developer: ValuSoft | Publisher: Elite Systems | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2003-03-04 | Ref.: 

GripShift:
    Developer: Sidhe | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: PSP, PSN, X360 | Release date: 2005-09-12 | Ref.: 

Grooverider: Slot Car Thunder:
    Developer: King of the Jungle | Publisher: Encore, Inc. | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-09-26 | Ref.: 

Group S Challenge:
    Developer: DigitalStudio | Publisher: Capcom | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2003-08-28 | Ref.: 

GT Advance 2: Rally Racing:
    Developer: MTO | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2001-12-07 | Ref.: 

GT Advance 3: Pro Concept Racing:
    Developer: MTO | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2002-04-26 | Ref.: 

GT Advance Championship Racing:
    Developer: MTO | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2001-03-21 | Ref.: 

GT Cube:
    Developer: MTO | Publisher: GCN | Platforms: 2003-06-20 | Release date: 

GT Legends:
    Developer: SimBin Studios | Publisher: 10tacle Studios | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005-10-15 | Ref.: 

GT Pro Series:
    Developer: MTO | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2006-11-19 | Ref.: 

GT Racers:
    Developer: Aqua Pacific | Publisher: Oxygen Interactive, Liquid Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, GBA | Release date: 2004-11-05 | Ref.: 

GT Racing: Motor Academy:
    Developer: Gameloft | Publisher: iOS, DROID, SYM | Platforms: 2009 | Release date: 

GT-R 400:
    Developer: Kuju Entertainment | Publisher: Midas Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2004-06-25 | Ref.: 

GTI Club+: Rally Côte d'Azur:
    Developer: Sumo Digital | Publisher: Konami | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2008-12-04 | Ref.: 

GTR – FIA GT Racing Game:
    Developer: SimBin Studios | Publisher: 10tacle Studios, Atari SA | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005-03-11 | Ref.: 

GTR 2 – FIA GT Racing Game:
    Developer: Blimey! Games Ltd. | Publisher: Atari SA | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006-09-29 | Ref.: 

GTR Evolution:
    Developer: SimBin Studios | Publisher: Viva Media | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2008-09-01 | Ref.: 

H-Craft Championship:
    Developer: Irrgheist | Publisher: Manifesto Games | Platforms: DROID, WIN, LIN | Release date: 2007-05-24 | Ref.: 

H2Overdrive:
    Developer: Specular Interactive | Publisher: Raw Thrills | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2009 | Ref.: 

Hannspree Ten Kate Honda: SBK-07 Superbike World Championship:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Valcon Games | Platforms: PS2, PSP | Release date: 2007-10-29 | Ref.: 

Hard Truck 2: King of the Road:
    Developer: JoWooD Productions | Publisher: JoWooD Productions , DreamCatcher Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2002-06-07 | Ref.: 

Hard Truck Apocalypse:
    Developer: Targem Games | Publisher: Buka Entertainment | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005-12-08 | Ref.: 

Hardware: Online Arena:
    Developer: London Studio | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2003-11-7 | Ref.: 

Harley-Davidson: Wheels of Freedom:
    Developer: Canopy Games | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Hello Kitty: Roller Rescue:
    Developer: XPEC Entertainment | Publisher: Namco | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2005-04-28 | Ref.: 

Heracles Chariot Racing:
    Developer: Neko Entertainment | Publisher: Midas Interactive | Platforms: PS2, PSP, PSN, Wii | Release date: 2007-07-06 | Ref.: 

Herbie Rescue Rally:
    Developer: Climax Handheld Games | Publisher: DS | Platforms: 2007 | Release date: 

High Voltage Hot Rod Show:
    Developer: High Voltage Software | Publisher: Wii | Platforms: 2009-01-19 | Release date: 

Highway Pursuit:
    Developer: Adam Dawes/Retrospec | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2003-11-12 | Release date: 

Hooters Road Trip:
    Developer: Hoplite Research | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 2002-03-25 | Ref.: 

Hot Rod: American Street Drag:
    Developer: Canopy Games | Publisher: ValuSoft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2003-08-31 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels Battle Force 5:
    Developer: Sidhe Interactive | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: Wii, DS | Release date: 2009-11-10 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels Extreme Racing:
    Developer: Atod | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2001-09-30 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels Micro Racers:
    Developer: Unique Development Studios | Publisher: Mattel Interactive , THQ | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-04-28 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels Velocity X:
    Developer: Beyond Games | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS2, GCN, GBA | Release date: 2002-10-16 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels World Race:
    Developer: Climax Group , Destination Software | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS2, GCN, GBA | Release date: 2003-10-29 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels: Beat That!:
    Developer: Eutechnyx , Human Soft | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: WIN, PS2, X360, Wii, DS | Release date: 2007-07-02 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels: Burnin' Rubber:
    Developer: Altron | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2001-11-21 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels: Stunt Track Challenge:
    Developer: Climax Racing , Destination Software | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, XBOX, PS2, GBA | Release date: 2004-11-09 | Ref.: 

Hugo: Bukkazoom!:
    Developer: ITE Media | Publisher: Namco | Platforms: PS2, WIN, GBA | Release date: 2003-10-31 | Ref.: 

Hummer (video game):
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Sega , General Motors | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2009 | Ref.: 

Hummer Badlands:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Global Star Software | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2006-04-13 | Ref.: 

Hyperball Racing:
    Developer: Gabitasoft Entertainment | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2006-09-18 | Release date: 

IHRA Drag Racing 2004:
    Developer: Super Happy Fun Fun | Publisher: Bethesda Softworks | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2003-12-25 | Ref.: 

IHRA Drag Racing: Sportsman Edition:
    Developer: Bethesda Softworks | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Platforms: 2006-06-12 | Release date: 

IHRA Professional Drag Racing 2005:
    Developer: Bethesda Softworks | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Platforms: 2004-11-05 | Release date: 

Import Tuner Challenge:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2006-07-27 | Ref.: 

Indianapolis 500 Evolution:
    Developer: Brain in a Jar | Publisher: Destineer | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2009-09-30 | Ref.: 

Indianapolis 500 Legends:
    Developer: Torus Games | Publisher: Destineer | Platforms: Wii, DS | Release date: 2007-12-18 | Ref.: 

Indy Racing 2000:
    Developer: Paradigm Entertainment | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 2000-06-09 | Ref.: 

IndyCar Series:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Platforms: 2003-05-21 | Release date: 

IndyCar Series 2005:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: PS2, XBOX | Platforms: 2004-06-22 | Release date: 

Initial D Arcade Stage:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade, PS2, PSP, PS3 | Platforms: 2001 | Release date: 

Initial D Arcade Stage 4:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2007-02-21 | Release date: 

Initial D Extreme Stage:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: PS3 | Platforms: 2008-07-03 | Release date: 

1nsane:
    Developer: Invictus Games | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-11 | Ref.: 

iRacing.com:
    Developer: iRacing.com Motorsport Simulations | Publisher: WIN, LIN, OSX | Platforms: 2008-08-26 | Release date: 

The Italian Job:
    Developer: Pixelogic | Publisher: Rockstar Games , Sales Curve Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 2001-10-05 | Ref.: 

Jak X: Combat Racing:
    Developer: Naughty Dog | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2005-10-18 | Ref.: 

Jeep Thrills:
    Developer: Game Sauce | Publisher: DSI Games | Platforms: PS2, Wii | Release date: 2008-08-05 | Ref.: 

JellyCar:
    Developer: Walaber | Publisher: Walaber, Microsoft | Platforms: iOS, X360 | Release date: 2008-02-20 | Ref.: 

JellyCar 2:
    Developer: Creature Feep | Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios | Platforms: iOS, PSP, Wii, DS | Release date: 2009-11-07 | Ref.: 

Jeremy McGrath Supercross 2000:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Salt Lake City | Publisher: Acclaim Sports | Platforms: N64, PS1, DC, GBC | Release date: 2000-02-29 | Ref.: 

Jeremy McGrath Supercross World:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Salt Lake City | Publisher: Acclaim Max Sports | Platforms: PS1, GCN | Release date: 2001-11-15 | Ref.: 

Jet X2O:
    Developer: Killer Game | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-10-29 | Ref.: 

Jugular Street Luge Racing:
    Developer: nFusion Interactive | Publisher: HeadGames Publishing | Platforms: WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Juiced:
    Developer: Juice Games | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, MOBI | Release date: 2005-06-13 | Ref.: 

Juiced 2: Hot Import Nights:
    Developer: Juice Games , Paradigm Entertainment | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PS3, X360, DS, PSP | Release date: 2007-09-17 | Ref.: 

Juiced: Eliminator:
    Developer: Juice Games | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PSP, MOBI | Release date: 2006-06-28 | Ref.: 

Karnaaj Rally:
    Developer: Infinite Dreams Inc. | Publisher: Jaleco | Platforms: GBA, SYM | Release date: 2003-01-02 | Ref.: 

Kawasaki Jet Ski:
    Developer: Data Design Interactive | Publisher: Bold Games | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2008-01-22 | Ref.: 

Kawasaki Quad Bikes:
    Developer: Data Design Interactive | Publisher: Bold Games | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2007-10-26 | Ref.: 

Keroro Gunsō Taiketsu! Gekisō Keronprix Daisakusen de Arimasu!!:
    Developer: Sunrise Interactive | Publisher: GBA | Platforms: 2004-12-09 | Release date: 

Kinetica:
    Developer: Santa Monica Studio | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment America | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-10-14 | Ref.: 

King of Route 66, The:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Sega AM2 , Tose | Platforms: Arcade, PS2 | Release date: 2002-02-03 | Ref.: 

Kirby Air Ride:
    Developer: HAL Laboratory | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GCN | Release date: 2003-07-11 | Ref.: 

Knight Rider: The Game:
    Developer: Davilex Games | Publisher: Tri Synergy | Platforms: WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2002-11-22 | Ref.: 

Konami Krazy Racers:
    Developer: KCEK | Publisher: Konami | Platforms: GBA, WiiU | Release date: 2001-03-21 | Ref.: 

L.A. Rush:
    Developer: Midway Studios - Newcastle | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GZM, PSP | Release date: 2005-10-10 | Ref.: 

LA Street Racing:
    Developer: Invictus Games | Publisher: Groove Media Inc. | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006-12-01 | Ref.: 

Leadfoot:
    Developer: Ratbag Games | Publisher: WizardWorks | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2001-06-01 | Ref.: 

Lego Racers 2:
    Developer: Attention to Detail | Publisher: Lego Software | Platforms: WIN, PS2, GBA | Release date: 2001-09-27 | Ref.: 

Lego Stunt Rally:
    Developer: Intelligent Games , Graphic State | Publisher: Lego Media | Platforms: WIN, GBC | Release date: 2000-09-13 | Ref.: 

LightBike:
    Developer: Pankaku | Publisher: iOS, DROID | Platforms: 2009-01-29 | Release date: 

Live for Speed:
    Developer: Scawen Roberts, Eric Bailey and Victor van Vlaardingen | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2003-07-13 | Release date: 

London Taxi: Rush Hour:
    Developer: Data Design Interactive | Publisher: Bold Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, Wii | Release date: 2006-06-23 | Ref.: 

Looney Tunes Racing:
    Developer: Circus Freak Studios | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS1, GBC | Release date: 2000-11-13 | Ref.: 

Looney Tunes: Space Race:
    Developer: Infogrames Melbourne House | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: DC, PS2 | Release date: 2000-11-17 | Ref.: 

Lotus Challenge:
    Developer: Kuju Entertainment | Publisher: UTV Ignition Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN, MOBI | Release date: 2001-11-02 | Ref.: 

M&M's Kart Racing:
    Developer: Frontline Studios | Publisher: DSI Games, Zoo Digital Publishing | Platforms: DS, Wii | Release date: 2007-10-25 | Ref.: 

Mad Dash Racing:
    Developer: Crystal Dynamics | Publisher: Eidos Interactive | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2001-11-15 | Ref.: 

Mad Rally:
    Developer: TMReality | Publisher: Play Publishing | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006-05-04 | Ref.: 

Mad Tracks:
    Developer: Load Inc. | Publisher: Micro Application, D3 Publisher | Platforms: WIN, X360 | Release date: 2006-02-27 | Ref.: 

Madagascar Kartz:
    Developer: Sidhe Interactive , Virtuos | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: DS, PS3, Wii, X360 | Release date: 2009-10-23 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart Arcade GP:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2005 | Release date: 

Mario Kart Arcade GP 2:
    Developer: Bandai Namco Games | Publisher: Namco Bandai Games | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2007 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart DS:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2005-11-14 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart Wii:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2008-04-10 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart: Double Dash:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GCN | Release date: 2003-11-07 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart: Super Circuit / Mario Kart Advance:
    Developer: Intelligent Systems | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GBA, 3DS, WiiU, NX | Release date: 2001-07-21 | Ref.: 

Mart Racer:
    Developer: Joju Games | Publisher: Wii | Platforms: 2009-09-14 | Release date: 

Mashed:
    Developer: Supersonic Software | Publisher: Empire Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-06-18 | Ref.: 

Maximum Chase:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Majesco Entertainment | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2002-09-36 | Ref.: 

MegaRace 3:
    Developer: Cryo Interactive | Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2002-01-09 | Ref.: 

Mercedes-Benz Truck Racing:
    Developer: Synetic GmbH | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Mercedes-Benz World Racing:
    Developer: Synetic | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Platforms: 2003-09-30 | Release date: 

Metropolis Street Racer:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: DC | Release date: 2000-11-03 | Ref.: 

Michael Schumacher Racing World Kart 2002:
    Developer: Radon Labs | Publisher: JoWooD Productions | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 2002-09-18 | Ref.: 

Michelin Rally Masters: Race of Champions:
    Developer: Digital Illusions CE | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 2000-07-25 | Ref.: 

Mickey's Speedway USA:
    Developer: Rare | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GBC, N64 | Release date: 2000-11-13 | Ref.: 

Micro Machines V4:
    Developer: Supersonic Software | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PSP, DS | Release date: 2006-06-27 | Ref.: 

Micro Maniacs:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: PS1, GBC | Platforms: 2000-10-05 | Release date: 

Midnight Club 3: DUB Edition:
    Developer: Rockstar San Diego , Rockstar Leeds | Publisher: Rockstar Games | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, PSP | Release date: 2005-04-12 | Ref.: 

Midnight Club II:
    Developer: Rockstar San Diego | Publisher: Rockstar Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-04-09 | Ref.: 

Midnight Club: Los Angeles:
    Developer: Rockstar San Diego , Rockstar London | Publisher: Rockstar Games , Take-Two Interactive , Spike | Platforms: PS3, X360, PSP | Release date: 2008-10-20 | Ref.: 

Midnight Club: Street Racing:
    Developer: Angel Studios , Rebellion Developments | Publisher: Rockstar Games , Destination Software | Platforms: PS2, GBA | Release date: 2000-10-26 | Ref.: 

Midtown Madness 2:
    Developer: Angel Studios | Publisher: Microsoft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-09-22 | Ref.: 

Midtown Madness 3:
    Developer: Digital Illusions | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2003-06-17 | Ref.: 

Mini Desktop Racing:
    Developer: Data Design Interactive | Publisher: Conspiracy Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS2, Wii | Release date: 2005-07-20 | Ref.: 

Mini Racing Online:
    Developer: Vicente Mas Morant | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2003 | Ref.: 

Monster 4x4: Masters of Metal:
    Developer: Ubisoft Barcelona , Inland Productions | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: PS2, GCN | Release date: 2003-11-25 | Ref.: 

Monster 4x4: World Circuit:
    Developer: Ubisoft Barcelona | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: XBOX, Wii | Release date: 2006-03-23 | Ref.: 

Monster Jam:
    Developer: Torus Games | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: WIN, PS2, Wii, X360, DS | Release date: 2007-11-13 | Ref.: 

Monster Jam: Maximum Destruction:
    Developer: Inland Productions | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS2, GBA, GCN | Release date: 2002-03-27 | Ref.: 

Monster Jam: Urban Assault:
    Developer: Torus Games | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS2, PSP, Wii, DS | Release date: 2008-10-28 | Ref.: 

Monster Trucks Nitro:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: Miniclip | Platforms: WIN, OSX, iOS | Release date: 2008-12-19 | Ref.: 

Monster Trux: Arenas:
    Developer: Data Design Interactive | Publisher: Conspiracy Entertainment | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2007-09-25 | Ref.: 

Moscow Racer:
    Developer: IRS | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2009-03 | Release date: 

Moto Racer 3:
    Developer: Delphine Software International | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2001-12-07 | Ref.: 

Moto Racer Advance:
    Developer: Adeline Software International , Delphine Software International | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2002-10-04 | Ref.: 

Moto Racer DS:
    Developer: Artefacts Studio | Publisher: SouthPeak Games | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2008-10-28 | Ref.: 

Moto Racer World Tour:
    Developer: Delphine Software International | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000-09-29 | Ref.: 

Motocross Madness 2:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-05-25 | Ref.: 

Motocross Mania 3:
    Developer: Deibus Studios | Publisher: 2K Games | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-04-22 | Ref.: 

MotoGP '06:
    Developer: Climax Racing | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2006-06-09 | Ref.: 

MotoGP '07:
    Developer: Climax Racing | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, X360, MOBI | Release date: 2007-08-24 | Ref.: 

MotoGP '07 (PS2):
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Capcom | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2007-10-01 | Ref.: 

MotoGP '08:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Capcom | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PS3, Wii, X360 | Release date: 2008-10-24 | Ref.: 

MotoGP:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: PS2 | Platforms: 2000-10-12 | Release date: 

MotoGP 3:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: PS2 | Platforms: 2003-02-27 | Release date: 

MotoGP 3: Ultimate Racing Technology:
    Developer: Climax Racing | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, MOBI, XBOX | Release date: 2005-05 | Ref.: 

MotoGP 4:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: PS2 | Platforms: 2005-05-27 | Release date: 

MotoGP: Ultimate Racing Technology:
    Developer: Climax Brighton | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, XBOX, GBA | Release date: 2002-03-08 | Ref.: 

Motor City Online:
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2001-10-29 | Release date: 

Motor Mayhem:
    Developer: Beyond Games | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2001-7-2 | Ref.: 

MotorStorm:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2006-12-14 | Ref.: 

MotorStorm: Arctic Edge:
    Developer: Bigbig Studios , Virtuos | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSP, PS2 | Release date: 2009-09-17 | Ref.: 

MotorStorm: Pacific Rift:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2008-10-28 | Ref.: 

MTX Mototrax:
    Developer: Left Field Productions | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, OSX, PSP | Release date: 2004-03-02 | Ref.: 

Muppet RaceMania:
    Developer: Traveller's Tales | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000-04-19 | Ref.: 

MX Rider:
    Developer: Paradigm Entertainment | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-10-26 | Ref.: 

MX Superfly:
    Developer: Pacific Coast Power & Light | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-06-17 | Ref.: 

MX Unleashed:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-02-17 | Ref.: 

MX vs. ATV Reflex:
    Developer: THQ Digital Phoenix , Tantalus Studios | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS3, PSP, X360, DS | Release date: 2009-12-01 | Ref.: 

MX vs. ATV Unleashed:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-03-16 | Ref.: 

MX vs. ATV: Untamed:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios , Incinerator Studios , Tantalus Media | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: DS, PS2, PS3, PSP, X360, Wii | Release date: 2007-12-17 | Ref.: 

MySims Racing:
    Developer: Artificial Mind and Movement | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: Wii, DS | Release date: 2009-06-08 | Ref.: 

N.I.C.E.2:
    Developer: Synetic GmbH | Publisher: SouthPeak Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

NASCAR 06: Total Team Control:
    Developer: EA Tiburon | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005-08-30 | Ref.: 

NASCAR 07:
    Developer: EA Tiburon | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: PS2, PSP, XBOX | Release date: 2006-09-06 | Ref.: 

NASCAR 08:
    Developer: EA Tiburon | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: PS2, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-07-23 | Ref.: 

NASCAR 2000:
    Developer: EA Sports , Stormfront Studios , Software Creations | Publisher: EA Sports , THQ | Platforms: WIN, N64, GBC, PS1 | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

NASCAR 2001:
    Developer: EA Sports | Publisher: PS1, PS2 | Platforms: 2000 | Release date: 

NASCAR 2005: Chase for the Cup:
    Developer: EA Tiburon | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2004-08-31 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Arcade:
    Developer: Sega AM-3 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Heat:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Hasbro Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC | Release date: 2000-09-27 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Heat 2002:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GBA | Release date: 2001-11-14 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Kart Racing:
    Developer: Electronic Arts | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2009-02-10 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Racers:
    Developer: Majesco Entertainment | Publisher: GBC | Platforms: 2000 | Release date: 

NASCAR Racing 2002 Season:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, MAC | Release date: 2002-02-14 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Racing 2003 Season:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, MAC | Release date: 2003-02-13 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Racing 4:
    Developer: Papyrus Design Group | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2001-02-06 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Rumble:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000-01-31 | Ref.: 

NASCAR SimRacing:
    Developer: EA Tiburon | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005-02-15 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Thunder 2002:
    Developer: EA Tiburon | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS1, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2001-10-02 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Thunder 2003:
    Developer: EA Sports , Budcat Creations , ISI | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS1, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-09-19 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Thunder 2004:
    Developer: ISI , EA Tiburon , Budcat Creations | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS1, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2003-09-16 | Ref.: 

NASCAR: Dirt to Daytona:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS2, GCN | Release date: 2002-11-11 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Carbon:
    Developer: EA Canada , EA Black Box , Rovio Mobile | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PS3, X360, Wii, XBOX, GCN, GBA, DS, PSP, MOBI, OSX, ZB, Arcade | Release date: 2006-10-31 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit 2:
    Developer: EA Black Box , EA Seattle | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-09-30 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Most Wanted:
    Developer: EA Black Box , EA Redwood Shores | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, X360, GCN, GBA, DS, PSP | Release date: 2005-11-11 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Nitro:
    Developer: Firebrand Games , EA Montreal | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: DS, Wii | Release date: 2009-11-03 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Porsche Unleashed:
    Developer: Eden Studios , EA Canada , Pocketeers | Publisher: Electronic Arts , Destination Software, ZOO Digital Publishing | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBA | Release date: 2000-02-29 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: ProStreet:
    Developer: EA Black Box , Exient Entertainment | Publisher: Electronic Arts , EA Mobile | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PS3, Wii, DS, X360, MOBI, PSP | Release date: 2007-11-14 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Shift:
    Developer: Slightly Mad Studios , EA Bright Light | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, PSP, iOS, DROID, SYM, MEEGO | Release date: 2009-09-15 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Undercover:
    Developer: EA Black Box , Exient Entertainment , Firebrand Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, DS, PS2, PS3, PSP, Wii, X360, BB10, iOS, SYM, webOS, WP | Release date: 2008-11-18 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Underground:
    Developer: EA Black Box | Publisher: EA Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN, GBA | Release date: 2003-11-17 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Underground 2:
    Developer: EA Canada , Pocketeers | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN, GBA, DS, PSP | Release date: 2004-11-09 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Underground Rivals:
    Developer: Team Fusion | Publisher: EA Games | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2005-02-24 | Ref.: 

NetKar Pro:
    Developer: Kunos Simulazioni | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2006-04-10 | Release date: 

New York Race:
    Developer: Kalisto Entertainment | Publisher: Wanadoo Edition | Platforms: WIN, PS2, GBC | Release date: 2001-11-17 | Ref.: 

NGEN Racing:
    Developer: Curly Monsters | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Nicktoons Nitro:
    Developer: Raw Thrills | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2009-11-10 | Release date: 

Nicktoons Racing:
    Developer: Software Creations | Publisher: Hasbro Interactive , Infogrames | Platforms: Arcade, WIN, PS1, GBC, GBA | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Nicktoons Winners Cup Racing:
    Developer: Pronto Games | Publisher: ValuSoft , THQ | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006-02-15 | Ref.: 

Nitro Stunt Racing:
    Developer: GameSeed | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2007-12-28 | Release date: 

Nitrobike:
    Developer: Left Field Productions | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: PS2, Wii | Release date: 2008-01-15 | Ref.: 

Novadrome:
    Developer: Stainless Games | Publisher: Buena Vista Games | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2006-12-20 | Ref.: 

Open Kart:
    Developer: Microïds | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2001-09-24 | Release date: 

OutRun 2:
    Developer: Sega AM2 , Sumo Digital | Publisher: Sega , Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: Arcade, XBOX | Release date: 2003-12-13 | Ref.: 

OutRun 2006: Coast 2 Coast:
    Developer: Sumo Digital | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, PSP | Release date: 2006-03-17 | Ref.: 

OutRun Online Arcade:
    Developer: Sumo Digital | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009 | Ref.: 

Pac-Man World Rally:
    Developer: Smart Bomb Interactive | Publisher: Bandai Namco Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PSP, GCN | Release date: 2006-08-22 | Ref.: 

Paris-Dakar Rally:
    Developer: Broadsword Interactive | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2001-10-09 | Ref.: 

Pimp My Ride:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS2, X360, PSP, Wii | Release date: 2006-11-21 | Ref.: 

PixelJunk Racers:
    Developer: Q-Games | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2007-09-13 | Ref.: 

Planet Hot Wheels:
    Developer: Mattel , Hot Wheels | Publisher: Mattel | Platforms: WIN, MAC | Release date: 2001 | Ref.: 

PocketBike Racer:
    Developer: Blitz Games | Publisher: King Games | Platforms: XBOX, X360 | Release date: 2006-11-19 | Ref.: 

POD 2:
    Developer: Ubisoft | Publisher: DC | Platforms: 2000 | Release date: 

Pokémon Dash:
    Developer: Ambrella | Publisher: Nintendo , The Pokémon Company | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2004-12-02 | Ref.: 

Polaris SnoCross:
    Developer: Vicarious Visions | Publisher: Vatical Entertainment | Platforms: N64, PS1, GBC, WIN | Release date: 2000-02 | Ref.: 

Pop Island:
    Developer: ODENIS Studio | Publisher: DS | Platforms: 2009-12-07 | Release date: 

Pro Cycling Manager Pro 05-06:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005-06-22 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager Season 2006:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006-06-16 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager Season 2007: Le Tour de France:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2007-06 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager Season 2008: Le Tour de France:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2008-06 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager Season 2009: Le Tour de France:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2009-06-18 | Ref.: 

Pro Rally 2001:
    Developer: Ubi Soft Barcelona | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-12-04 | Ref.: 

Pro Rally 2002:
    Developer: Ubi Soft Barcelona | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: PS2, GCN | Release date: 2002-03-28 | Ref.: 

Project Gotham Racing:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Publisher: Microsoft | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2001-11-15 | Ref.: 

Project Gotham Racing 2:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2003-11-17 | Ref.: 

Project Gotham Racing 3:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2005-11-22 | Ref.: 

Project Gotham Racing 4:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2007-10-02 | Ref.: 

Project Gotham Racing Mobile:
    Developer: Glu Mobile | Publisher: MOBI | Platforms: 2007-02-14 | Release date: 

Project Torque:
    Developer: Invictus Games | Publisher: Aeria Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2008-04-30 | Ref.: 

Pulse Racer:
    Developer: Jaleco | Publisher: XBOX | Platforms: 2003-01-02 | Release date: 

Pure:
    Developer: Black Rock Studio | Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2008-09-16 | Ref.: 

Pursuit Force:
    Developer: Bigbig Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2005-11-18 | Ref.: 

Pursuit Force: Extreme Justice:
    Developer: Bigbig Studios | Publisher: SCEE , SCEA | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2007-12-07 | Ref.: 

Pyroblazer:
    Developer: Eipix Entertainment | Publisher: Candella Software | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2008-11-13 | Ref.: 

Quantum Redshift:
    Developer: Curly Monsters | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2002-09-17 | Ref.: 

R-Tuned : Ultimate Street Racing:
    Developer: Sega AM2 | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2008-10-23 | Ref.: 

R: Racing Evolution:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Platforms: 2003-11-27 | Release date: 

Race - The Official WTCC Game:
    Developer: SimBin Studios | Publisher: Eidos Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006-11-24 | Ref.: 

Race 07:
    Developer: SimBin Studios | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2007-10-12 | Release date: 

Race Driver 2006:
    Developer: Sumo Digital | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2006-06-06 | Ref.: 

Race Driver: Create & Race:
    Developer: Firebrand Games | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2007-09-28 | Ref.: 

Race Driver: Grid:
    Developer: Codemasters , Feral Interactive | Publisher: Codemasters , Sega , Feral Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, Arcade, OSX | Release date: 2008-05-30 | Ref.: 

Race On:
    Developer: SimBin | Publisher: bitComposer Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2009-10-16 | Ref.: 

Race or Die:
    Developer: The Godfather | Publisher: Codemasters , Spike | Platforms: iOS | Release date: 2009-10-05 | Ref.: 

Race Pro:
    Developer: SimBin | Publisher: Atari SA | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2009-02-17 | Ref.: 

Racing Gears Advance:
    Developer: Orbital Media | Publisher: GBA | Platforms: 2004-12-17 | Release date: 

RalliSport Challenge:
    Developer: Digital Illusions | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: XBOX, WIN | Release date: 2002-03-04 | Ref.: 

RalliSport Challenge 2:
    Developer: Digital Illusions | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2004-05-04 | Ref.: 

Rally Championship:
    Developer: Warthog Games | Publisher: Conspiracy Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, GCN | Release date: 2002-05-31 | Ref.: 

Rally Championship Xtreme:
    Developer: Warthog Games | Publisher: SCi Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2001-11-01 | Ref.: 

Rally Fusion: Race of Champions:
    Developer: Climax Brighton | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-11-11 | Ref.: 

Rally Trophy:
    Developer: Bugbear Entertainment | Publisher: JoWooD Productions | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2001-11-20 | Ref.: 

RARS:
    Developer:  | Publisher:  | Platforms:  | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

RC de Go!:
    Developer: Taito | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

RC Revenge:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Cheltenham | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000-08-16 | Ref.: 

RC Revenge Pro:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Cheltenham | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2000-12-01 | Ref.: 

Real Racing:
    Developer: Firemint | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2009-06-08 | Release date: 

Rebel Trucker:
    Developer: 3 Romans | Publisher: Global Star Software | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2003-11-25 | Ref.: 

rFactor:
    Developer: Image Space Incorporated | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2005-08-31 | Release date: 

Richard Burns Rally:
    Developer: Warthog Games | Publisher: SCi | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GZM | Release date: 2004-07-09 | Ref.: 

Ridge Racer (PSP) (2004):
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: PSP | Platforms: 2004-12-12 | Release date: 

Ridge Racer 2 (PSP) (2006):
    Developer: Namco Bandai Games | Publisher: PSP | Platforms: 2006-09-14 | Release date: 

Ridge Racer 6:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: X360 | Platforms: 2005-11-22 | Release date: 

Ridge Racer 64:
    Developer: Nintendo Software Technology | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 2000-02-14 | Ref.: 

Ridge Racer DS:
    Developer: Nintendo Software Technology | Publisher: Namco | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2004-12-07 | Ref.: 

Ridge Racer 7:
    Developer: Namco Bandai Games | Publisher: PS3 | Platforms: 2006-11-11 | Release date: 

Ridge Racer Accelerated:
    Developer: Namco Networks | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2009-12-15 | Release date: 

Ridge Racer V:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: PS2, Arcade | Platforms: 2000-03-04 | Release date: 

Riding Spirits:
    Developer: Spike | Publisher: BAM! Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-07-25 | Ref.: 

Rig 'n' Roll:
    Developer: SoftLab-NSK | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2009-11-27 | Ref.: 

Rigs of Rods:
    Developer: Rigs of Rods Contributors | Publisher: LIN, OSX, WIN | Platforms: 2005-08-11 | Release date: 

Road Rash: Jailbreak:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS1, GBA | Release date: 2000-02-01 | Ref.: 

Road Trip Adventure:
    Developer: E-game | Publisher: Conspiracy Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, PS3 | Release date: 2002-01-10 | Ref.: 

Road Trip: The Arcade Edition:
    Developer: Hudson Soft | Publisher: Takara , Conspiracy Entertainment , Zoo Digital Publishing | Platforms: GCN | Release date: 2002-12-19 | Ref.: 

RoadKill:
    Developer: Terminal Reality | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-10-13 | Ref.: 

Rollcage Stage II:
    Developer: Attention to Detail | Publisher: Midway Games , Psygnosis , Take-Two Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 2000-03-08 | Ref.: 

RPM Tuning:
    Developer: Babylon Software | Publisher: Wanadoo Edition | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-11-19 | Ref.: 

RS3: Racing Simulation 3:
    Developer: Ubi Soft Paris | Publisher: Ubi Soft | Platforms: WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2003-10-30 | Ref.: 

Rumble Racing:
    Developer: EA Redwood Shores | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-04-23 | Ref.: 

Runabout 2:
    Developer: Climax Entertainment | Publisher: Media Rings | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000-05-19 | Ref.: 

Rush Rush Rally Racing:
    Developer: Senile Team | Publisher: RedSpotGames | Platforms: DC, Wii | Release date: 2009-10-04 | Ref.: 

SBK-07: Superbike World Championship:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Valcon Games | Platforms: PS2, PSP | Release date: 2007-05-18 | Ref.: 

SBK-08: Superbike World Championship:
    Developer: Black Bean Games | Publisher: Milestone | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PS3, PSP, X360 | Release date: 2008-08-01 | Ref.: 

SBK-09: Superbike World Championship:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Black Bean Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PS3, PSP, X360 | Release date: 2009-05-29 | Ref.: 

SCORE International Baja 1000:
    Developer: Left Field Productions | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PS3, X360, Wii | Release date: 2008-10-28 | Ref.: 

Screamer 4x4:
    Developer: Clever's Development | Publisher: Titus Software , Virgin Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-12-22 | Ref.: 

Sea-Doo Hydrocross:
    Developer: Vicarious Visions , Engine Software | Publisher: Vatical Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2001-06-06 | Ref.: 

Sega Driving Simulator:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2002 | Release date: 

Sega GT:
    Developer: Wow Entertainment / Tose | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: WIN, DC | Release date: 2000-02-17 | Ref.: 

Sega GT 2002:
    Developer: Wow Entertainment | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2002-09-02 | Ref.: 

Sega GT Online:
    Developer: Wow Entertainment | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2003-12-25 | Ref.: 

Sega Race TV:
    Developer: Sega AM Plus | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2008-02-19 | Ref.: 

Sega Rally 2006:
    Developer: Sega | Publisher: PS2 | Platforms: 2006-01-12 | Release date: 

Sega Rally 3:
    Developer: Sega Racing Studio | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: Arcade, X360, PSN | Release date: 2008-06-30 | Ref.: 

Sega Rally Revo:
    Developer: Sega Racing Studio | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, PSP | Release date: 2007-09-27 | Ref.: 

Shox:
    Developer: Electronic Arts (Chertsey) | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-09-23 | Ref.: 

Shrek Smash n' Crash Racing:
    Developer: Torus Games | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS2, GCN, GBA, DS, PSP | Release date: 2006-11-14 | Ref.: 

Simpsons: Road Rage, The:
    Developer: Radical Entertainment | Publisher: Electronic Arts , Fox Interactive | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN, GBA | Release date: 2001-11-24 | Ref.: 

Ski-Doo: Snowmobile Challenge:
    Developer: ColdWood Interactive | Publisher: Valcon Games | Platforms: PS3, Wii, X360 | Release date: 2009-03-10 | Ref.: 

Sled Storm (2002):
    Developer: EA Canada | Publisher: EA Sports BIG | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-03-11 | Ref.: 

Smash Cars:
    Developer: Creat Studios | Publisher: Metro3D, Inc. | Platforms: WIN, PS2, PSN, Steam | Release date: 2003-08-13 | Ref.: 

Smashing Drive:
    Developer: Gaelco | Publisher: Arcade, XBOX, GCN, GBA | Platforms: 2000-12-10 | Release date: 

Smuggler's Run:
    Developer: Angel Studios | Publisher: Rockstar Games | Platforms: PS2, GBA | Release date: 2000-10-26 | Ref.: 

Smuggler's Run 2:
    Developer: Angel Studios | Publisher: Rockstar Games | Platforms: PS2, GCN | Release date: 2001-10-30 | Ref.: 

Smuggler's Run: Warzones:
    Developer: Angel Studios | Publisher: Rockstar Games | Platforms: GCN | Release date: 2002-08-07 | Ref.: 

Smurf Racer!:
    Developer: Artificial Mind and Movement | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2001-04-01 | Ref.: 

Snail Mail:
    Developer: Sandlot Games | Publisher: WIN, Wii, OSX, iOS, DROID | Platforms: 2004-12-03 | Release date: 

Sno-Cross Championship Racing:
    Developer: Unique Development Studios | Publisher: Crave Entertainment | Platforms: PS1, DC | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Sonic Riders:
    Developer: Sonic Team , Now Production , United Game Artists | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2006-02-21 | Ref.: 

Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity:
    Developer: Sonic Team , Now Production , United Game Artists | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: PS2, Wii | Release date: 2008-01-08 | Ref.: 

Sonic Rivals:
    Developer: Backbone Entertainment | Publisher: Sega Studio USA , Sega | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2006-11-16 | Ref.: 

Sonic Rivals 2:
    Developer: Backbone Entertainment | Publisher: Sega Studio USA , Sega | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2007-11-13 | Ref.: 

Speed Challenge: Jacques Villeneuve's Racing Vision:
    Developer: Ubisoft | Publisher: WIN, PS2, GCN | Platforms: 2002-10-03 | Release date: 

Speed Kings:
    Developer: Climax London | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-05-23 | Ref.: 

Speed Racer: The Videogame:
    Developer: Sidhe Interactive , Virtuos | Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: Wii, DS, PS2 | Release date: 2008-05-06 | Ref.: 

Spirit of Speed 1937:
    Developer: Broadsword Interactive | Publisher: Hasbro Interactive , LJN | Platforms: WIN, DC | Release date: 2000-06-09 | Ref.: 

Splashdown:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2001-11-05 | Ref.: 

Splashdown: Rides Gone Wild:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS2, MOBI | Release date: 2003-08-05 | Ref.: 

SPOGS Racing:
    Developer: Pronto Games | Publisher: D2CspoG | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2008-07-07 | Ref.: 

SSX 3:
    Developer: EA Canada | Publisher: EA Sports Big | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN, GBA, GZM | Release date: 2003-10-20 | Ref.: 

Star Wars Racer Revenge:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: LucasArts | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-02-11 | Ref.: 

Star Wars: Racer Arcade:
    Developer: Sega AM3 | Publisher: LucasArts , Sega | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Star Wars: Super Bombad Racing:
    Developer: Lucas Learning | Publisher: LucasArts | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-04-23 | Ref.: 

Starsky & Hutch:
    Developer: Mind's Eye Productions | Publisher: Empire Interactive , Gotham Games | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GBA, GCN | Release date: 2003-06-20 | Ref.: 

STCC - The Game:
    Developer: SimBin Studios | Publisher: Atari SA | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2008 | Ref.: 

Street Legal:
    Developer: Invictus Games | Publisher: Activision Value | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2002 | Ref.: 

Street Legal Racing: Redline:
    Developer: Invictus Games | Publisher: Activision Value | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2003-07-18 | Ref.: 

Street Racing Syndicate:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Namco | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN, GBA | Release date: 2004-08-17 | Ref.: 

Street Riders:
    Developer: Ubisoft , Virtuos | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2006-03-31 | Ref.: 

Street Supremacy:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Genki , Konami | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2005 | Ref.: 

Street Trace NYC:
    Developer: Gaia Industries | Publisher: Microsoft | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2007 | Ref.: 

Stunt GP:
    Developer: Team17 | Publisher: Titus Interactive | Platforms: WIN, DC, PS2 | Release date: 2001-04-06 | Ref.: 

Stunt Racer 64:
    Developer: Boss Game Studios | Publisher: Midway Games | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 2000-10-01 | Ref.: 

Stuntman:
    Developer: Reflections Interactive | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS2, GBA | Release date: 2002-06-23 | Ref.: 

Stuntman: Ignition:
    Developer: Paradigm Entertainment | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS2, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2007-09-17 | Ref.: 

Super PickUps:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: XS Games | Platforms: PS2, Wii | Release date: 2007-09-26 | Ref.: 

Super Trucks Racing:
    Developer: Jester Interactive | Publisher: XS Games | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-07-28 | Ref.: 

Superbike 2001:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-10-06 | Ref.: 

SuperCar Challenge:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: System 3 | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2009-09-04 | Ref.: 

Supercar Street Challenge:
    Developer: Exakt | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS2, WIN | Release date: 2001-10-22 | Ref.: 

Superleague Formula 2009: The Game:
    Developer: Image Space Incorporated | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2009-10-31 | Release date: 

Supersonic Acrobatic Rocket-Powered Battle-Cars:
    Developer: Psyonix | Publisher: PS3 | Platforms: 2008-10-09 | Release date: 

Superstars V8 Racing:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Black Bean Games, Codemasters | Platforms: Arcade, WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2009-06-26 | Ref.: 

SuperTuxKart:
    Developer: Joerg Henrichs, Marianne Gagnon | Publisher: WIN, OSX, LIN, AMI, AmiOS | Platforms: 2006-09-22 | Release date: 

Suzuki TT Superbikes:
    Developer: Jester Interactive | Publisher: Jester Interactive, Valcon Games | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2005-04-29 | Ref.: 

Swamp Buggy Racing:
    Developer: Daylight Productions | Publisher: WizardWorks | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2000-01 | Ref.: 

Swypeout:
    Developer: Spin Master | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2007 | Release date: 

SX Superstar:
    Developer: Climax Solent | Publisher: AKA Acclaim | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-06-26 | Ref.: 

System Rush:
    Developer: Ideaworks Game Studio | Publisher: Nokia | Platforms: NGE | Release date: 2005-09 | Ref.: 

TalesRunner:
    Developer: RHAON | Publisher: OGPlanet | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005 | Ref.: 

TD Overdrive: The Brotherhood of Speed:
    Developer: Pitbull Syndicate | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2002-05-27 | Ref.: 

Amsterdam Street Racer:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Grabit | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006 | Ref.: 

Amsterdam Taxi Madness:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Davilex Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2004-09 | Ref.: 

ATV Mudracer:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Media-Service 2000 | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2004 | Ref.: 

City Racer: Underground Action:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: media Verlagsgesellschaft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2008-05 | Ref.: 

Downtown Challenge:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: FIP Publishing | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2008 | Ref.: [ 4 ]

ESR: European Street Racing:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: XIDER | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2007 | Ref.: 

F-1 Chequered Flag:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: MarkSoft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2007 | Ref.: 

FSR: French Street Racing:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: City Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2008-05-27 | Ref.: 

Glacier:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Orca Multimedia | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006 | Ref.: 

Glacier 2:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Zoo Games | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2009-10-27 | Ref.: 

GSR: German Street Racing:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Beat Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006 | Ref.: 

Paris Chase:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2007 | Release date: 

Scooter War3z:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: IQ Publishing | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006 | Ref.: 

Shangai Street Racer:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: magnussoft Deutschland | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2004-05-01 | Ref.: 

Taxi 3: Extreme Rush:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Fusion Software | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005-10-07 | Ref.: 

Taxi Racer: London 2:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Media-Service 2000 | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2003 | Ref.: 

Taxi Racer: New York 2:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: magnussoft Deutschland | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2004-06-04 | Ref.: 

Taxi Raser:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Davilex Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2004-10-01 | Ref.: 

Ultimate Motocross:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: FIP Publishing | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2007-03-19 | Ref.: 

Test Drive Cycles:
    Developer: Xantera | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: GBC | Release date: 2000-07-26 | Ref.: 

Test Drive Unlimited:
    Developer: Eden Games , Atari Melbourne House | Publisher: Atari SA | Platforms: WIN, PS2, X360, PSP | Release date: 2006-09-05 | Ref.: 

Test Drive: Eve of Destruction:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Atari SA | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2004-08-25 | Ref.: 

Test Drive: Off-Road Wide Open:
    Developer: Angel Studios | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2001-08-24 | Ref.: 

Thrill Drive 2:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2003 | Release date: 

Thrill Drive 3:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Polygon Magic | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2005 | Ref.: 

TOCA Race Driver:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Platforms: 2002-09-23 | Release date: 

TOCA Race Driver 2:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX, MOBI, PSP | Platforms: 2004-04-13 | Release date: 

TOCA Race Driver 3:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS2, XBOX, PSP, OSX, DS | Platforms: 2006-02-22 | Release date: 

TOCA World Touring Cars:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: PS1, GBA | Platforms: 2000-09-25 | Release date: 

Tokyo Xtreme Racer 2:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Crave Entertainment | Platforms: DC | Release date: 2000-06-22 | Ref.: 

Tokyo Xtreme Racer 3:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Crave Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2003-07-24 | Ref.: 

Tokyo Xtreme Racer: Drift:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Crave Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2003-02-27 | Ref.: 

Tokyo Xtreme Racer: Drift 2:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Crave Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2005-07-28 | Ref.: 

Tokyo Xtreme Racer: Zero:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: Crave Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-03-15 | Ref.: 

Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam:
    Developer: Toys for Bob | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: Wii, PS2, DS, GBA | Release date: 2006-10-24 | Ref.: 

Top Gear GT Championship:
    Developer: Kemco | Publisher: GBA | Platforms: 2001-03-21 | Release date: 

Top Gear Hyper Bike:
    Developer: Snowblind Studios | Publisher: Kemco | Platforms: N64 | Release date: 2000-03-17 | Ref.: 

Top Gear Pocket 2:
    Developer: Vision Works | Publisher: Kemco | Platforms: GBC | Release date: 2000-01-30 | Ref.: 

Top Gear Rally (2003):
    Developer: Tantalus Interactive | Publisher: Nintendo , Kemco | Platforms: GBA | Release date: 2003-07-25 | Ref.: 

Top Gear: Dare Devil:
    Developer: Papaya Studio | Publisher: Kemco | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2000-12-19 | Ref.: 

Total Immersion Racing:
    Developer: Razorworks | Publisher: Empire Interactive , Feral Interactive | Platforms: WIN, MAC, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2002-11-01 | Ref.: 

Totaled!:
    Developer: Rage Software | Publisher: Majesco Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2002-06-07 | Ref.: 

Tour de France (2005):
    Developer: Living Mobile | Publisher: In-Fusio | Platforms: MOBI | Release date: 2005 | Ref.: 

Tourist Trophy:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2006-02-02 | Ref.: 

Toy Home:
    Developer: Game Republic | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2007-12-20 | Ref.: 

Toy Racer:
    Developer: No cliche | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: DC | Release date: 2000-12-22 | Ref.: 

Toy Story Racer:
    Developer: Traveller's Tales | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: GBC, PS1 | Release date: 2001-02-28 | Ref.: 

TrackMania:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Digital Jesters , Focus Home Interactive , Enlight Software , Buka Entertainment | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2003-11-28 | Ref.: 

TrackMania DS:
    Developer: Firebrand Games , Altus | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive , Altus | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2008-11-18 | Ref.: 

TrackMania Nations Forever:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2008-04-16 | Ref.: 

TrackMania Nations ESWC:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Deep Silver | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006 | Ref.: [ 5 ]

TrackMania Original:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005-10-21 | Ref.: 

TrackMania Sunrise:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive , Digital Jesters , Enlight Software | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005-04 | Ref.: 

TrackMania United:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Deep Silver , Buka Entertainment , Enlight Software , QV Software, Valve Corporation | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2006-11-17 | Ref.: 

Transworld Snowboarding:
    Developer: Housemarque | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: XBOX | Release date: 2002-10-15 | Ref.: 

Trials:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WEB | Release date: 2000 | Ref.: 

Trials 2: Second Edition:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2008-03-01 | Release date: 

Trials HD:
    Developer: RedLynx , Ubisoft Kyiv | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2009-08-12 | Ref.: 

Truck Simulator:
    Developer: SCS Software | Publisher: WIN, OSX, LIN | Platforms: 2008-08-06 | Release date: 

Tube Slider:
    Developer: NDcube | Publisher: NEC Interchannel | Platforms: GCN | Release date: 2003-04-17 | Ref.: 

Turismo Carretera:
    Developer: 2Pez Games | Publisher: 777 Studios | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2009-02-08 | Ref.: 

Tux Racer:
    Developer: Sunspire Studios | Publisher: LIN, MAC, WIN | Platforms: 2000-10-02 | Release date: 

Twisted Metal: Black:
    Developer: Incog Inc. Entertainment | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-6-18 | Ref.: 

Twisted Metal: Head-On:
    Developer: Incognito Entertainment | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSP, PS2 | Release date: 2005-3-24 | Ref.: 

Tyco R/C: Assault with a Battery:
    Developer: Lucky Chicken Games | Publisher: Mattel Interactive | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2000-09 | Ref.: 

Urban Jungle:
    Developer: Urban Development | Publisher: Autoklub Rijeka | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2005-12-06 | Ref.: 

V-Rally 3:
    Developer: Velez & Dubail, Eden Games | Publisher: Atari SA | Platforms: WIN, GBA, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-06-21 | Ref.: 

Vanishing Point:
    Developer: Clockwork Games | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: DC, PS1 | Release date: 2001-01-04 | Ref.: 

VDrift:
    Developer: Joe Venzon | Publisher: Texas Instruments | Platforms: LIN, BSD, OSX, WIN | Release date: 2005-03-29 | Ref.: 

Vigilante 8 Arcade:
    Developer: Isopod Labs | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2008-11-5 | Ref.: 

Virtual Skipper 5: 32nd America's Cup: The Game:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Focus | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2007 | Ref.: 

Wacky Races:
    Developer: Appaloosa Interactive | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC | Release date: 2000-06-30 | Ref.: 

Wacky Races: Crash and Dash:
    Developer: Square Enix Europe | Publisher: Eidos Interactive | Platforms: DS, Wii | Release date: 2008-06-17 | Ref.: 

Wacky Races: Mad Motors:
    Developer: Coyote Console, Banpresto | Publisher: Blast! Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2007-06-21 | Ref.: 

Wacky Races: Starring Dastardly and Muttley:
    Developer: Infogrames Sheffield House | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: DC, PS2 | Release date: 2000-06-26 | Ref.: 

Walt Disney World Quest: Magical Racing Tour:
    Developer: Crystal Dynamics | Publisher: Eidos Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC, DC | Release date: 2000-03-23 | Ref.: 

Wangan Midnight:
    Developer: Genki | Publisher: PS3 | Platforms: 2007-07-05 | Release date: 

Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Polygon Magic | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2003-07-04 | Ref.: 

Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 2:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Polygon Magic | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2004-04-05 | Ref.: 

Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2007-07-01 | Release date: 

Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2008-12-16 | Release date: 

Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 DX Plus:
    Developer: Namco | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2008-12-16 | Release date: 

Warm Up!:
    Developer: Lankhor | Publisher: Microids | Platforms: WIN, PS1 | Release date: 2000-11-16 | Ref.: 

Wasteland Racers 2071:
    Developer: Triotech | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2006-11-20 | Release date: 

WaterRace:
    Developer: French Touch, SàRL | Publisher: MAC | Platforms: 2000-12-23 | Release date: 

Wave Race: Blue Storm:
    Developer: Nintendo Software Technology | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: GCN | Release date: 2001-09-14 | Ref.: 

Wave Rally:
    Developer: Opus Studio Inc. | Publisher: Eidos Interactive | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-11-26 | Ref.: 

Wheelspin:
    Developer: Awesome Play | Publisher: Detn8 Games | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2009-08-18 | Ref.: 

Wild Wild Racing:
    Developer: Rage Software | Publisher: Interplay Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2000-09-14 | Ref.: 

Williams F1 Team Driver:
    Developer: KnowWonder | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2001 | Ref.: 

Wipeout Fusion:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: BAM! Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-02-08 | Ref.: 

Wipeout HD:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2008-09-25 | Ref.: [ 6 ]

Wipeout Pulse:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSP, PS2 | Release date: 2007-12-13 | Ref.: 

Wipeout Pure:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSP | Release date: 2005-03-24 | Ref.: 

Woody Woodpecker Racing:
    Developer: Syrox Developments | Publisher: Konami | Platforms: WIN, PS1, GBC | Release date: 2000-12-15 | Ref.: 

World of Outlaws: Sprint Cars 2002:
    Developer: Ratbag Games | Publisher: Infogrames | Platforms: WIN, PS2 | Release date: 2002-03-26 | Ref.: 

World Racing 2:
    Developer: Synetic GmbH | Publisher: TDK | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX | Release date: 2005 | Ref.: 

World Rally Championship:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment , BAM! Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-11-30 | Ref.: 

WRC 3:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2003-11-21 | Ref.: 

WRC 4:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2004-10-22 | Ref.: 

WRC II Extreme:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2002-11-29 | Ref.: 

WRC: FIA World Rally Championship Arcade:
    Developer: Unique Development Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS1 | Release date: 2002-08-11 | Ref.: 

WRC: Rally Evolved:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2005-10-28 | Ref.: 

Wreckless: The Yakuza Missions:
    Developer: Bunkasha | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2002-02-04 | Ref.: 

WWE Crush Hour:
    Developer: Pacific Coast Power & Light | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS2, GCN | Release date: 2003-03-17 | Ref.: 

X-Moto:
    Developer: Nicolas Adenis-Lamarre | Publisher: Independent | Platforms: LIN, BSD, OSX, WIN | Release date: 2005 | Ref.: 

X-treme Express:
    Developer: Syscom Entertainment | Publisher: Midas Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: PS2 | Release date: 2001-02-21 | Ref.: 

XGRA: Extreme-G Racing Association:
    Developer: Acclaim Studios Cheltenham | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platforms: PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: 2003-09-11 | Ref.: 

Xpand Rally:
    Developer: Techland | Publisher: Deep Silver , Techland , TopWare Interactive , Micro Application | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2004-09-24 | Ref.: 

XS Airboat Racing:
    Developer: Miracle Designs | Publisher: XS Games | Platforms: PS1, PS3, PSP | Release date: 2003 | Ref.: 

Yamaha Supercross:
    Developer: Aurona Games, Coyote Console | Publisher: NA : Destination Software EU : Zoo Digital Publishing | Platforms: WIN, PS2, Wii, DS | Release date: 2008-11-25 | Ref.: 

Yaris:
    Developer: Castaway Entertainment , Backbone Emeryville | Publisher: Microsoft | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2007-10-10 | Ref.: 

Zeebo Extreme:
    Developer: Tectoy | Publisher: Tectoy , Zeebo | Platforms: ZB | Release date: 2009-08-15 | Ref.: 

Zeebo Extreme Baja:
    Developer: Tectoy | Publisher: Tectoy , Zeebo | Platforms: ZB | Release date: 2009-10-31 | Ref.: 

Zeebo Extreme Corrida Aérea:
    Developer: Tectoy | Publisher: Tectoy , Zeebo | Platforms: ZB | Release date: 2009-09-29 | Ref.: 

Zeebo Extreme Rolimã (Ruleman):
    Developer: Tectoy | Publisher: Tectoy , Zeebo | Platforms: ZB | Release date: 2009-08-15 | Ref.: 

Zombie Driver:
    Developer: Exor Studios | Publisher: DROID, WIN, X360, PS3 | Platforms: 2009-12-4 | Release date: 

Zusar Vasar:
    Developer: Real Vision, Inc. | Publisher: DC | Platforms: 2000-07-27 | Release date: 

2XL MX Offroad:
    Developer: 2XL Games | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2012-01-22 | Release date: 

2XL Racing:
    Developer: 2XL Games | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2014-10-15 | Release date: 

2XL TrophyLite Rally:
    Developer: 2XL Games | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2010-06-10 | Release date: 

3D Pixel Racing:
    Developer: Vidia | Publisher: Microforum Games | Platforms: Wii, iOS | Release date: 2011-07-14 | Ref.: 

Absolute Drift:
    Developer: Funselektor Labs | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, LIN, OSX, iOS, DROID | Platforms: 2015-07-29 | Release date: 

American Truck Simulator:
    Developer: SCS Software | Publisher: WIN, OSX, LIN | Platforms: 2016-02-02 | Release date: 

Angry Birds Go!:
    Developer: Rovio Entertainment , Exient Entertainment | Publisher: Rovio Entertainment | Platforms: iOS, DROID, WP, BB10 | Release date: 2013-12-11 | Ref.: 

Antigraviator:
    Developer: Cybernetic Walrus | Publisher: Iceberg Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-06-06 | Ref.: 

Armageddon Riders:
    Developer: Targem Games | Publisher: PS3 | Platforms: 2011-06-02 | Release date: 

Asphalt 3D:
    Developer: Gameloft | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: 3DS | Release date: 2011-03-10 | Ref.: 

Asphalt 6: Adrenaline:
    Developer: Gameloft Barcelona | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: iOS, OSX, DROID, SYM, webOS, BB10, Bada | Release date: 2010-12-21 | Ref.: 

Asphalt 7: Heat:
    Developer: Gameloft Montreal | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: WIN, iOS, DROID, BB10, WP | Release date: 2012-06-21 | Ref.: 

Asphalt 8: Airborne:
    Developer: Gameloft Barcelona | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: WIN, iOS, DROID, WP, BB10, TIZ | Release date: 2013-08-22 | Ref.: 

Asphalt 9: Legends /Asphalt Legends Unite:
    Developer: Gameloft Barcelona | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, iOS, DROID, NX | Release date: 2018-07-25 | Ref.: 

Asphalt Nitro:
    Developer: Gameloft | Publisher: DROID, TIZ | Platforms: 2015-05-12 | Release date: 

Asphalt Overdrive:
    Developer: Gameloft Madrid | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: WIN, iOS, DROID, WP | Release date: 2014-09-24 | Ref.: 

Asphalt Xtreme:
    Developer: Gameloft Madrid, Gameloft Barcelona | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: WIN, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2016-10-27 | Ref.: 

Asphalt: Injection:
    Developer: Gameloft | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: PSV | Release date: 2011-12-17 | Ref.: 

Assetto Corsa:
    Developer: Kunos Simulazioni | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2013-11-08 | Release date: 

Assetto Corsa Competizione:
    Developer: Kunos Simulazioni | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2018-09-12 | Release date: 

Audiosurf 2:
    Developer: Dylan Fitterer | Publisher: WIN, OSX, LIN | Platforms: 2015-05-26 | Release date: 

Auto Club Revolution:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2013-04 | Release date: 

Bang Bang Racing:
    Developer: Playbox, Digital Reality | Publisher: Digital Reality | Platforms: DROID, WIN, PS3, PSN, X360 | Release date: 2011-05-13 | Ref.: 

Batman:
    Developer: Specular Interactive | Publisher: Raw Thrills | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2013 | Ref.: 

Beach Buggy Blitz:
    Developer: Vector Unit | Publisher: DROID, iOS, BB10 | Platforms: 2012 | Release date: 

Beach Buggy Racing:
    Developer: Vector Unit | Publisher: DROID, iOS, PS4, XOne, WP, NX | Platforms: 2014 | Release date: 

Beach City Drift:
    Developer: Cartoon Network Games | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2016-07-22 | Release date: 

BeamNG.drive:
    Developer: BeamNG GmbH | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2015-05-29 | Release date: 

Ben 10: Galactic Racing:
    Developer: Monkey Bar Games | Publisher: D3 Publisher | Platforms: PS3, X360, DS, Wii, 3DS, PSV | Release date: 2011-10-18 | Ref.: 

Blazerush:
    Developer: Targem Games | Publisher: PS3, PS4, WIN, OSX, LIN | Platforms: 2014-10-29 | Release date: 

Blood Drive:
    Developer: Sidhe | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-11-2 | Ref.: 

Blur:
    Developer: Bizarre Creations | Publisher: Activision Blizzard | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-05-25 | Ref.: 

Burnout Crash!:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: PS3, X360, iOS | Release date: 2011-09-20 | Ref.: [ 7 ]

Bus Simulator 16:
    Developer: Stillalive Studios | Publisher: Astragon | Platforms: WIN, OSX | Release date: 2016-03-03 | Ref.: 

Bus Simulator 18:
    Developer: Stillalive Studios | Publisher: Astragon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-06-13 | Ref.: 

Calvin Tucker's Farm Animal Racing Tournament:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Funbox Media | Platforms: WIN, Wii | Release date: 2010-07-13 | Ref.: 

Car Town:
    Developer: Cie Games | Publisher: Glu Mobile | Platforms: SNG, iOS | Release date: 2010-07-27 | Ref.: 

Carmageddon: Max Damage:
    Developer: Stainless Games | Publisher: WIN, OSX, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2016-08-27 | Release date: 

Carmageddon: Reincarnation:
    Developer: Stainless Games | Publisher: WIN, OSX | Platforms: 2014-03-27 | Release date: 

Cars 2:
    Developer: Avalanche Software , Firebrand Games , Virtual Toys | Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios , Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, OSX, DS, 3DS, PS3, PSP, Wii, iOS, X360 | Release date: 2011-06-21 | Ref.: 

Cars 3: Driven to Win:
    Developer: Avalanche Software | Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: PS3, PS4, X360, XOne, WiiU, NX | Release date: 2017-06-13 | Ref.: 

Cars: Fast as Lightning:
    Developer: Gameloft | Publisher: The Walt Disney Company , Pixar | Platforms: DROID, iOS | Release date: 2014-10-09 | Ref.: 

Champion Jockey: G1 Jockey & Gallop Racer:
    Developer: Koei | Publisher: Tecmo Koei | Platforms: PS3, Wii, X360 | Release date: 2011-09-22 | Ref.: 

Crash Bandicoot Nitro Kart 2:
    Developer: Polarbit | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: iOS | Release date: 2010-05-27 | Ref.: 

Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled:
    Developer: Beenox | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-06-21 | Ref.: 

Crazy Cars: Hit the Road:
    Developer: Little World Entertainment | Publisher: Anuman | Platforms: WIN, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2012 | Ref.: 

Crew 2, The:
    Developer: Ivory Tower | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-06-29 | Ref.: 

Crew, The:
    Developer: Ivory Tower , Ubisoft Reflections | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2014-12-02 | Ref.: 

Cruis'n Blast:
    Developer: Raw Thrills | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2017-01 | Ref.: 

CSR Classics:
    Developer: Boss Alien , Mad Atom Games | Publisher: NaturalMotion | Platforms: iOS, DROID | Release date: 2013-10-17 | Ref.: 

CSR Racing:
    Developer: Boss Alien | Publisher: NaturalMotion , Zynga | Platforms: WIN, iOS, OSX, DROID | Release date: 2012-06-28 | Ref.: 

CSR Racing 2:
    Developer: Boss Alien | Publisher: NaturalMotion | Platforms: iOS, DROID | Release date: 2015-12-07 | Ref.: 

Dakar 18:
    Developer: Bigmoon Entertainment | Publisher: Deep Silver | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-09-25 | Ref.: 

Danger Zone:
    Developer: Three Fields Entertainment | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2017-05-30 | Release date: 

Danger Zone 2:
    Developer: Three Fields Entertainment | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2018-06-07 | Release date: 

Dangerous Driving:
    Developer: Three Fields Entertainment | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2019-04-09 | Release date: 

Descenders:
    Developer: RageSquid | Publisher: No More Robots | Platforms: WIN, XOne | Release date: 2019-05-07 | Ref.: 

Dirt 3:
    Developer: Codemasters Southam | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-05-24 | Ref.: 

Dirt 4:
    Developer: Codemasters Southam | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-06-09 | Ref.: 

Dirt Rally:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, LIN | Platforms: 2015-12-07 | Release date: 

Dirt Rally 2.0:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2019-02-26 | Release date: 

Dirt: Showdown:
    Developer: Codemasters Southam | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-05-25 | Ref.: 

Dirty Drivin':
    Developer: Specular Interactive | Publisher: Raw Thrills | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2011 | Ref.: 

Disc Drivin':
    Developer: Pixelocity Software | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2010-12-13 | Release date: 

DrawRace 2:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: Chillingo | Platforms: iOS | Release date: 2011-09-01 | Ref.: 

Driveclub:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS4 | Release date: 2014-10-07 | Ref.: 

Driver: Renegade 3D:
    Developer: Velez & Dubail | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: 3DS | Release date: 2011-09-01 | Ref.: 

Driver: San Francisco:
    Developer: Ubisoft Reflections | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS3, Wii, X360, OSX | Release date: 2011-09-01 | Ref.: 

Ducati: 90th Anniversary:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2016-06-09 | Release date: 

Dust Racing 2D:
    Developer: Jussi Lind | Publisher: WIN, LIN | Platforms: 2012-06-01 | Release date: 

Dyad:
    Developer: Right Square Bracket Left Square Bracket | Publisher: PS3, WIN, OSX, LIN | Platforms: 2012-07-17 | Release date: 

Eagle Flight:
    Developer: Ubisoft Montreal | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS4 | Release date: 2016-10-18 | Ref.: 

Earn to Die 2:
    Developer: Toffee Games | Publisher: Not Doppler | Platforms: iOS, DROID, WIN | Release date: 2014-11-20 | Ref.: 

El Chavo Kart:
    Developer: Efecto Studios | Publisher: Televisa | Platforms: PS3, X360, DROID | Release date: 2014-02-21 | Ref.: 

Euro Truck Simulator 2:
    Developer: SCS Software | Publisher: LIN, WIN, OSX | Platforms: 2012-10-19 | Release date: 

F1 2010:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-09-22 | Ref.: 

F1 2011:
    Developer: Codemaster Birmingham , Sumo Digital | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, 3DS, PSV, iOS | Release date: 2011-09-20 | Ref.: 

F1 2012:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham , Feral Interactive | Publisher: Codemasters , Feral Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2012-09-18 | Ref.: 

F1 2013:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham , Feral Interactive | Publisher: Codemasters , Feral Interactive , Bandai Namco Holdings | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, OSX | Release date: 2013-10-04 | Ref.: 

F1 2014:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2014-10-02 | Ref.: 

F1 2015:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2015-07-10 | Ref.: 

F1 2016:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-08-19 | Ref.: [ 8 ]

F1 2017:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-08-25 | Ref.: 

F1 2018:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-08-24 | Ref.: 

F1 2019:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-06-28 | Ref.: 

F1 Race Stars:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU | Release date: 2012-11-13 | Ref.: 

Fast & Furious: Showdown:
    Developer: Firebrand Games | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU, 3DS | Release date: 2013-05-21 | Ref.: 

Fast & Furious: SuperCars:
    Developer: Raw Thrills | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2011 | Release date: [ 9 ]

Fast Beat Loop Racer:
    Developer: Saint-Fun International | Publisher: UFO Interactive Games | Platforms: Arcade, WIN | Release date: 2011 | Ref.: 

Fast Racing League:
    Developer: Shin'en Multimedia | Publisher: Wii | Platforms: 2011-05-27 | Release date: 

Fast Racing Neo:
    Developer: Shin'en Multimedia | Publisher: WiiU | Platforms: 2015-12-10 | Release date: 

Fast RMX:
    Developer: Shin'en Multimedia | Publisher: Shin'en Multimedia , Nintendo | Platforms: NX | Release date: 2017-03-03 | Ref.: 

Ferrari Virtual Academy:
    Developer: Kunos Simulazioni | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2010-09-09 | Release date: 

FlatOut (Wii):
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Funbox Media | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2010-11 | Ref.: 

FlatOut 3: Chaos & Destruction:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Strategy First | Platforms: WIN, DROID | Release date: 2011-12-13 | Ref.: 

FlatOut 4: Total Insanity:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Publisher: Strategy First | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-03-17 | Ref.: 

Formula Fusion:
    Developer: R8 Games | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2017-06-01 | Release date: 

Forza Horizon:
    Developer: Playground Games , Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: X360, XOne | Release date: 2012-10-23 | Ref.: 

Forza Horizon 2:
    Developer: Playground Games , Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Studios , Sumo Digital | Platforms: X360, XOne | Release date: 2014-09-30 | Ref.: 

Forza Horizon 2 Presents Fast & Furious:
    Developer: Playground Games , Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Studios , Sumo Digital | Platforms: X360, XOne | Release date: 2015-03-27 | Ref.: 

Forza Horizon 3:
    Developer: Playground Games | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: WIN, XOne | Release date: 2016-09-27 | Ref.: 

Forza Horizon 4:
    Developer: Playground Games | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: WIN, XOne | Release date: 2018-10-02 | Ref.: 

Forza Motorsport 4:
    Developer: Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2011-10-11 | Ref.: 

Forza Motorsport 5:
    Developer: Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: XOne | Release date: 2013-11-22 | Ref.: 

Forza Motorsport 6:
    Developer: Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: WIN, XOne | Release date: 2015-09-15 | Ref.: 

Forza Motorsport 6: Apex:
    Developer: Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2016-09-06 | Ref.: 

Forza Motorsport 7:
    Developer: Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: WIN, XOne | Release date: 2017-10-03 | Ref.: [ 10 ]

Forza Street:
    Developer: Electric Square, Turn 10 Studios | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: WIN, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2018-05-08 | Ref.: 

Free Rider HD:
    Developer: Kano/Apps | Publisher: One More Level | Platforms: WEB, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2013 | Ref.: 

Garfield Kart:
    Developer: Artefacts Studio | Publisher: Anuman , Microïds | Platforms: iOS, DROID, 3DS, Steam | Release date: 2013-11-13 | Ref.: 

Garfield Kart: Furious Racing:
    Developer: Artefacts Studio | Publisher: Microids | Platforms: WIN, OSX, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-11-06 | Ref.: 

Gas Guzzlers Extreme:
    Developer: Gamepires | Publisher: Iceberg Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2013-10-08 | Ref.: 

Gear.Club Unlimited:
    Developer: Eden Games | Publisher: Anuman | Platforms: NX | Release date: 2017-11-21 | Ref.: 

Gear.Club Unlimited 2:
    Developer: Eden Games | Publisher: Microids | Platforms: NX | Release date: 2018-12-03 | Ref.: 

GKART:
    Developer: Tencent | Publisher: Garena | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2010-10-01 | Ref.: 

Glacier 3: The Meltdown:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Funbox Media | Platforms: WIN, Wii | Release date: 2010-09-21 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo 5:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2010-11-24 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo 6:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2013-12-05 | Ref.: 

Gran Turismo Sport:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: PS4 | Release date: 2017-10-17 | Ref.: 

Grand Prix Story:
    Developer: Kairosoft | Publisher: DROID, iOS | Platforms: 2012-04 | Release date: 

Grand Tour Game, The:
    Developer: Amazon Game Studios | Publisher: PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2019-01-15 | Release date: 

Gravel:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Milestone , Square Enix | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-02-27 | Ref.: 

Grid:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2019-10-11 | Release date: 

Grid 2:
    Developer: Codemasters Southam | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2013-05-27 | Ref.: 

GRID Autosport:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS3, X360 | Platforms: 2014-06-24 | Release date: 

Grip: Combat Racing:
    Developer: Caged Element | Publisher: Wired Productions | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2018-11-06 | Ref.: 

GT Racing 2: The Real Car Experience:
    Developer: Gameloft Bulgaria | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: iOS, DROID, BB10, WIN | Release date: 2013-11-13 | Ref.: 

Harms Way:
    Developer: Bongfish GmbH | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2010-12-08 | Ref.: 

Hello Kitty Kruisers:
    Developer: Scarab Entertainment | Publisher: Bergsala-Lightweight | Platforms: iOS, WiiU, NX | Release date: 2014-03-21 | Ref.: 

Hill Climb Racing:
    Developer: Fingersoft | Publisher: iOS, DROID, WP, WIN | Platforms: 2012-09-22 | Release date: [ 11 ]

Hill Climb Racing 2:
    Developer: Fingersoft | Publisher: DROID, iOS, WIN | Platforms: 2016-11-28 | Release date: 

Horizon Chase - World Tour:
    Developer: Aquiris Game Studio | Publisher: iOS, DROID, WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Platforms: 2015-09-20 | Release date: 

Hot Wheels Track Attack:
    Developer: Firebrand Games | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: Wii, DS | Release date: 2010-11-23 | Ref.: 

Hot Wheels: World's Best Driver:
    Developer: Firebrand Games | Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment , Chillingo | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU, 3DS | Release date: 2013-09-17 | Ref.: 

HTR High Tech Racing:
    Developer: QUByte Interactive | Publisher: WIN, DROID, iOS, 3DS | Platforms: 2010-06-24 | Release date: 

Hydro Thunder Hurricane:
    Developer: Vector Unit | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: X360, WIN | Release date: 2010-07-28 | Ref.: 

Insane 2:
    Developer: Targem Games | Publisher: Game Factory Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2011-09-30 | Ref.: 

JellyCar 3:
    Developer: Creature Feep | Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios | Platforms: iOS, DROID, WP | Release date: 2011-02-10 | Ref.: 

Jet Car Stunts:
    Developer: Grip Games | Publisher: BitComposer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3, PSV, X360, XOne, WIN, DROID | Release date: 2014-05-06 | Ref.: 

Jimmie Johnson's Anything with an Engine:
    Developer: Isopod Labs | Publisher: Autumn Games , Konami | Platforms: PS3, Wii, X360 | Release date: 2011-11-01 | Ref.: 

Joe Danger:
    Developer: Hello Games | Publisher: PS3, X360, WIN, iOS, DROID, PSV | Platforms: 2010-06-08 | Release date: 

Joe Danger 2: The Movie:
    Developer: Hello Games | Publisher: PS3, X360, OSX, LIN, PSV | Platforms: 2012-09-14 | Release date: 

Joe Danger Infinity:
    Developer: Hello Games | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2014-01-09 | Release date: 

Joy Ride Turbo:
    Developer: BigPark | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2012-05-23 | Ref.: 

Kinect Joy Ride:
    Developer: BigPark | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2010-11-04 | Ref.: 

Lego Legends of Chima: Speedorz:
    Developer: Lego | Publisher: TT Games | Platforms: WIN, iOS | Release date: 2013-01-03 | Ref.: 

Little Racers:
    Developer: Milkstone Studios | Publisher: X360, WIN, OSX, LIN | Platforms: 2011-07-27 | Release date: 

LittleBigPlanet Karting:
    Developer: United Front Games , Media Molecule | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2012-11-06 | Ref.: 

LocoCycle:
    Developer: Twisted Pixel Games | Publisher: Microsoft Studios | Platforms: WIN, X360, XOne | Release date: 2013-11-22 | Ref.: 

Mad Riders:
    Developer: Techland | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: PS3, X360, WIN, OSX | Release date: 2012-05-29 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart 7:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD , Retro Studios | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: 3DS | Release date: 2011-12-01 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart 8:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD , Bandai Namco Games | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: WiiU | Release date: 2014-05-29 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart 8 Deluxe:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD , Bandai Namco Games | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: NX | Release date: 2017-04-28 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart Arcade GP DX:
    Developer: Bandai Namco Games | Publisher: Namco Bandai Games | Platforms: Arcade | Release date: 2013-07-25 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart Tour:
    Developer: Nintendo EAD | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: iOS, DROID | Release date: 2019-09-25 | Ref.: 

Mario Sports Superstars:
    Developer: Bandai Namco Studios , Camelot Software Planning | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: 3DS | Release date: 2017-03-10 | Ref.: 

Mayhem:
    Developer: Left Field Productions | Publisher: Rombax Games | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-03-25 | Ref.: 

Micro Machines World Series:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, LIN, OSX | Platforms: 2017-06-29 | Release date: 

Mini Motor Racing:
    Developer: The Binary Mill | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2011-12-08 | Ref.: 

ModNation Racers:
    Developer: United Front Games , San Diego Studio | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3, PSP | Release date: 2010-05-19 | Ref.: 

ModNation Racers: Road Trip:
    Developer: San Diego Studio | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSV | Release date: 2012-02-22 | Ref.: 

Mole Kart:
    Developer: Shanghai Shengran Information Technology | Publisher: iOS, DROID | Platforms: 2012-01-12 | Release date: 

Monster Energy Supercross 2: The Official Videogame:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Platforms: 2019-02-08 | Release date: 

Monster Energy Supercross: The Official Videogame:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Platforms: 2018-02-13 | Release date: [ 12 ]

Monster Jam: Crush It!:
    Developer: Team6 | Publisher: GameMill Entertainment | Platforms: PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2016-10-25 | Ref.: 

Monster Jam: Path of Destruction:
    Developer: Virtuos | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: Wii, PS3, X360, DS, PSP | Release date: 2010-11-09 | Ref.: 

Monster Jam: Steel Titans:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ Nordic | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-06-25 | Ref.: 

Moto Racer 4:
    Developer: Microïds | Publisher: Anuman | Platforms: WIN, OSX, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-11-03 | Ref.: 

Motocross Madness (2013):
    Developer: Bongfish | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2013-04-10 | Ref.: 

MotoGP 09/10:
    Developer: Monumental Games | Publisher: Capcom | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-03-16 | Ref.: 

MotoGP 10/11:
    Developer: Monumental Games | Publisher: Capcom | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-03-15 | Ref.: 

MotoGP 13:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS3, PSV, X360 | Platforms: 2013-06-17 | Release date: 

MotoGP 14:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS3, X360, PSV, PS4 | Platforms: 2014-06-20 | Release date: [ 13 ]

MotoGP 15:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Milestone , Bandai Namco Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2015-06-24 | Ref.: 

MotoGP 17:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2017-06-15 | Release date: 

MotoGP 18:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Platforms: 2018-06-07 | Release date: 

MotoGP 19:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2019-06-06 | Release date: 

MotoHeroz:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: Wii, iOS | Platforms: 2011-09-15 | Release date: 

MotorStorm: Apocalypse:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2011-03-16 | Ref.: 

MotorStorm: RC:
    Developer: Evolution Studios | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3, PSV | Release date: 2012-02-22 | Ref.: 

MX vs. ATV Alive:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-05-10 | Ref.: 

MX vs. ATV All Out:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ Nordic | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-03-27 | Ref.: 

MX vs. ATV Supercross:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: Nordic Games | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2014-10-28 | Ref.: 

MXGP 2019:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2019-08-27 | Release date: 

MXGP Pro:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2018-07-10 | Release date: 

MXGP The Official Motocross Videogame:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS3, PS4, PSV, X360, XOne | Platforms: 2014-11-18 | Release date: 

MXGP2:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2016-06-21 | Release date: 

MXGP3:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Platforms: 2017-05-30 | Release date: 

MySims SkyHeroes:
    Developer: Behaviour Interactive | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: DS, PS3, Wii, X360 | Release date: 2010-09-28 | Ref.: 

Nail'd:
    Developer: Techland | Publisher: Deep Silver | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-11-30 | Ref.: 

NASCAR '14:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Deep Silver | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2014-02-18 | Ref.: 

NASCAR '15:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Dusenberry Martin Racing | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2015-05-22 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Heat 2:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: 704Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-09-12 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Heat 3:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: 704Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-09-07 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Heat 4:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: 704Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-09-13 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Heat Evolution:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Dusenberry Martin Racing | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-09-13 | Ref.: 

NASCAR The Game: 2011:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS3, X360, Wii | Release date: 2011-03-29 | Ref.: 

NASCAR The Game: 2013:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2013-07-24 | Ref.: 

NASCAR The Game: Inside Line:
    Developer: Eutechnyx | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: WIN, PS3, Wii, X360 | Release date: 2012-11-06 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Unleashed:
    Developer: Firebrand Games | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: Wii, PS3, X360, 3DS | Release date: 2011-11-01 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed (2015):
    Developer: Ghost Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2015-11-03 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed Heat:
    Developer: Ghost Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2019-11-08 | Ref.: [ 14 ]

Need for Speed Payback:
    Developer: Ghost Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-11-10 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS3, Wii, X360, iOS, DROID, webOS, WP | Release date: 2010-11-16 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: Rivals:
    Developer: Ghost Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2013-11-15 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: The Run:
    Developer: EA Black Box , Firebrand Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, Wii, 3DS | Release date: 2011-11-15 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed: World:
    Developer: EA Black Box | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2010-07-27 | Ref.: 

NeuroRacer:
    Developer: University of California, San Francisco | Publisher:  | Platforms: 2013 | Release date: 

Nickelodeon Kart Racers:
    Developer: Bamtang Games | Publisher: GameMill Entertainment | Platforms: NX, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-10-23 | Ref.: 

Nitro Nation Online:
    Developer: Creative Mobile | Publisher: DROID, iOS, WP | Platforms: 2014-04-03 | Release date: 

Offroad Legends:
    Developer: DogByte Games | Publisher: iOS, DROID | Platforms: 2012-06 | Release date: 

Onrush:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: Deep Silver | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-06-05 | Ref.: 

Pacer:
    Developer: R8 Games | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2017-06-01 | Release date: 

Pako 2:
    Developer: Tree Men Games | Publisher: WIN, OSX, iOS, DROID | Platforms: 2017-11-26 | Release date: 

Pop Island - Paperfield:
    Developer: ODENIS Studio | Publisher: DS | Platforms: 2010-07-15 | Release date: 

Pro Cycling Manager 2014: Le Tour de France:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2014-06-19 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager 2015:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2015-06-18 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager 2016:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2016-06-16 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager 2017:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2017-06-15 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager 2018: Le Tour de France:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2018-06-28 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager Season 2010: Le Tour de France:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PSP | Release date: 2010-06-16 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager Season 2011: Le Tour de France:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2011-06-24 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager Season 2012: Le Tour de France:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2012-06-22 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager Season 2013: Le Tour de France:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2013-06-21 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager Season 2019:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2019-06-27 | Ref.: 

Project CARS:
    Developer: Slightly Mad Studios | Publisher: Bandai Namco Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, WiiU | Release date: 2015-05-08 | Ref.: 

Project CARS 2:
    Developer: Slightly Mad Studios | Publisher: Bandai Namco Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, WiiU | Release date: 2017-09-22 | Ref.: 

Pyongyang Racer:
    Developer: Nosotek | Publisher: Koryo Tours | Platforms: WEB | Release date: 2012-12-19 | Ref.: 

Racer:
    Developer: Ruud van Gaal | Publisher: WIN, LIN, OSX | Platforms: 2012-08-09 | Release date: 

RaceRoom:
    Developer: Sector3 Studios | Publisher: RaceRoom Entertainment AG | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2013-02-12 | Ref.: 

Radial-G: Racing Revolved:
    Developer: Tammeka Games | Publisher: Quest, Steam, PS4, PSVR, GD | Platforms: 2016-03-28 | Release date: 

Real Racing 2:
    Developer: Firemint | Publisher: iOS, DROID, OSX, WP | Platforms: 2010-12-16 | Release date: 

Real Racing 3:
    Developer: Firemonkeys Studios | Publisher: EA Games | Platforms: iOS, DROID, NX, BB10 | Release date: 2013-02-28 | Ref.: 

Redout:
    Developer: 34BigThings | Publisher: 34BigThings, Nicalis , 505 Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2016-09-02 | Ref.: 

rFactor 2:
    Developer: Image Space Incorporated | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2013 | Release date: 

Ride:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne | Platforms: 2015-03-27 | Release date: 

Ride 2:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2016-10-07 | Release date: 

Ride 3:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2018-11-30 | Release date: 

Ridge Racer (Vita) (2011):
    Developer: Cellius | Publisher: Namco | Platforms: PSV | Release date: 2011-12-17 | Ref.: 

Ridge Racer 3D:
    Developer: Namco Bandai Games | Publisher: Namco | Platforms: 3DS | Release date: 2011-02-26 | Ref.: 

Ridge Racer Unbounded:
    Developer: Bugbear Entertainment | Publisher: Bandai Namco Games | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-03-27 | Ref.: 

Road Rage:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Maximum Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-11-14 | Ref.: 

Road Redemption:
    Developer: Pixel Dash Studios | Publisher: EQ Games | Platforms: LIN, WIN, OSX, NX, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-10-04 | Ref.: 

Rock of Ages:
    Developer: ACE Team | Publisher: Atlus , Sega | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-08-31 | Ref.: 

Rock of Ages II: Bigger & Boulder:
    Developer: ACE Team | Publisher: Atlus , Sega | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-08-28 | Ref.: 

Rocket League:
    Developer: Psyonix | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, OSX, LIN, NX | Platforms: 2015-07-07 | Release date: 

Roundabout:
    Developer: No Goblin | Publisher: WIN, OSX, LIN, PS4, XOne, PSV | Platforms: 2014-09-18 | Release date: 

Runbow:
    Developer: 13AM Games | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, WiiU, NX, 3DS | Platforms: 2015-08-27 | Release date: 

SBK 2011:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Black Bean Games | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-05-13 | Ref.: 

SBK X: Superbike World Championship:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Black Bean Games | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-10-19 | Ref.: 

Scrap Metal:
    Developer: Slick Entertainment | Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2010-03-10 | Ref.: 

Sébastien Loeb Rally Evo:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2016-01-29 | Release date: 

Shift 2: Unleashed:
    Developer: Slightly Mad Studios , Straight Right | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, iOS | Release date: 2011-03-29 | Ref.: 

Sibak Al Fursan:
    Developer: Kuma Reality Games | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2010-12-17 | Release date: 

Simraceway:
    Developer: Ignite Game Technologies | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2011-11 | Release date: 

Sky Punks:
    Developer: Fathom Interactive | Publisher: Rovio Stars | Platforms: iOS, DROID | Release date: 2015-04-09 | Ref.: 

SkyDrift:
    Developer: Digital Reality | Publisher: WIN, PS3, PSN, X360 | Platforms: 2011-09-06 | Release date: 

Skylanders: SuperChargers:
    Developer: Vicarious Visions , Beenox | Publisher: Activision | Platforms: PS3, PS4, X360, XOne, WiiU, iOS, 3DS, Wii | Release date: 2015-09-20 | Ref.: 

Snuggle Truck:
    Developer: Owlchemy Labs | Publisher: iOS, OSX, WIN, BB10, MEEGO, LIN, DROID | Platforms: 2011-04-28 | Release date: 

Sonic & All-Stars Racing Transformed:
    Developer: Sumo Digital | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, WiiU, PSV, 3DS, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2012-11-16 | Ref.: 

Sonic & Sega All-Stars Racing:
    Developer: Sumo Digital , Gameloft , Feral Interactive | Publisher: Sega , Feral Interactive | Platforms: WIN, X360, Wii, PS3, DS, OSX, Arcade, iOS, DROID, BB10 | Release date: 2010-02-23 | Ref.: 

Sonic Free Riders:
    Developer: Sonic Team | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: X360 | Release date: 2010-11-04 | Ref.: 

Speed:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Funbox Media | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2010 | Ref.: 

Speed 2:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Easy Interactive | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2012-11-28 | Ref.: 

Speed Dreams:
    Developer: The Speed Dreams Team | Publisher: Microsoft | Platforms: LIN, WIN, AmiOS, BEOS | Release date: 2010-03-27 | Ref.: 

SpeedRunners:
    Developer: DoubleDutch Games | Publisher: tinyBuild | Platforms: WIN, OSX, LIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-04-19 | Ref.: 

Spintires:
    Developer: Pavel Zagrebelnyj | Publisher: Oovee Game Studios | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2014-06-13 | Ref.: 

Spintires: MudRunner:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2017-10-31 | Ref.: 

Split/Second:
    Developer: Black Rock Studio , Sumo Digital | Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, iOS, PSP | Release date: 2010-05-18 | Ref.: 

SpongeBob's Boating Bash:
    Developer: ImPulse Games | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: Wii, DS | Release date: 2010-03-02 | Ref.: 

Spy Hunter (2012):
    Developer: TT Fusion | Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: 3DS, PSV | Release date: 2012-10-09 | Ref.: 

Street Outlaws: The List:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: GameMill Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-10-22 | Ref.: 

Super Sonic Racer:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Funbox Media | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2018-03-09 | Ref.: 

Super Street: Racer:
    Developer: Lion Castle Entertainment | Publisher: Funbox Media | Platforms: NX | Release date: 2019-11-07 | Ref.: [ 15 ]

Super Street: The Game:
    Developer: Team6 | Publisher: Lion Castle Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-09-10 | Ref.: [ 16 ]

Superstars V8 Next Challenge:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Deep Silver , Black Bean Games | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, PSN | Release date: 2010-02-26 | Ref.: 

Swing Racers:
    Developer: Morepork Games Limited | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2015-06-17 | Release date: 

Table Top Racing:
    Developer: Playrise Digital | Publisher: WIN, iOS, DROID, PS4, PSV, XOne | Platforms: 2013-01-31 | Release date: 

Team Sonic Racing:
    Developer: Sumo Digital | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-05-21 | Ref.: 

Test Drive Unlimited 2:
    Developer: Eden Games | Publisher: Atari SA | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-02-08 | Ref.: 

Test Drive: Ferrari Racing Legends:
    Developer: Slightly Mad Studios | Publisher: Rombax Games | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-07-03 | Ref.: 

Things on Wheels:
    Developer: Load Inc. | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN, X360 | Release date: 2010-05-12 | Ref.: 

Thumb Drift:
    Developer: SMG Studios | Publisher: iOS, DROID | Platforms: 2016 | Release date: 

TNT Racers:
    Developer: DTP Entertainment | Publisher: Wii, PSP, PS3, X360, WiiU | Platforms: 2010-12-01 | Release date: 

Touch Racing Nitro:
    Developer: Bravo Game Studios | Publisher: iOS, PSP, PS3, DROID | Platforms: 2010-03-29 | Release date: 

Tour de France 2013: 100th Edition, Le:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2013-07-02 | Ref.: 

Tour de France, Le:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-07-01 | Ref.: 

Toybox Turbos:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: Codemasters Racing | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2014-11-12 | Ref.: 

TrackMania 2: Canyon:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2011-09-14 | Ref.: 

TrackMania 2: Lagoon:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2017-05-23 | Ref.: 

TrackMania 2: Stadium:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2013-06-20 | Ref.: 

TrackMania Turbo:
    Developer: Firebrand Games | Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive , Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: DS | Release date: 2010-09-23 | Ref.: 

TrackMania: Build to Race:
    Developer: Firebrand Games | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive , DreamCatcher Interactive | Platforms: Wii | Release date: 2010-09-23 | Ref.: 

Trailblazers:
    Developer: Supergonk | Publisher: Rising Star Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2018-05-08 | Ref.: 

Trials Evolution:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: Ubisoft , Microsoft Studios | Platforms: WIN, X360 | Release date: 2012-04-18 | Ref.: 

Trials Fusion:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, X360, XOne | Release date: 2014-04-15 | Ref.: 

Trials of the Blood Dragon:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-06-13 | Ref.: 

Trials Rising:
    Developer: RedLynx | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-02-26 | Ref.: 

Turbo Racing League:
    Developer: PikPok | Publisher: iOS, DROID, WP | Platforms: 2013-05-16 | Release date: 

Turbo: Super Stunt Squad:
    Developer: Monkey Bar Games , Torus Games | Publisher: D3 Publisher | Platforms: PS3, X360, WiiU, Wii, 3DS, DS | Release date: 2013-07-16 | Ref.: 

Twisted Metal (2012):
    Developer: Eat Sleep Play | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PS3 | Release date: 2012-2-14 | Ref.: 

Urban Trial Freestyle:
    Developer: Tate Interactive | Publisher: WIN, PS3, 3DS, iOS, PSV | Platforms: 2013-02-19 | Release date: 

V-Rally 4:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Publisher: Bigben Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2018-09-06 | Ref.: 

Valentino Rossi: The Game:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2016-06-16 | Release date: 

VS. Racing 2:
    Developer: Maciek Drejak Labs | Publisher: iOS | Platforms: 2012-09-06 | Release date: 

Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 4:
    Developer: Bandai Namco Entertainment | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2011-12-15 | Release date: 

Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 5:
    Developer: Bandai Namco Entertainment | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2014-03-12 | Release date: 

Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 6:
    Developer: Bandai Namco Entertainment | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: 2018-07-12 | Release date: [ 17 ]

Wipeout 2048:
    Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Sony Computer Entertainment | Platforms: PSV | Release date: 2012-01-19 | Ref.: 

Wipeout Omega Collection:
    Developer: EPOS Game Studios | Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: PS4 | Release date: 2017-06-06 | Ref.: [ 18 ]

World of Cars Online, The:
    Developer: Disney Interactive Media Group | Publisher: The Walt Disney Company | Platforms: WIN, OSX | Release date: 2010-03-01 | Ref.: 

World of Outlaws: Sprint Cars:
    Developer: Big Ant Studios | Publisher: THQ | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-02-09 | Ref.: 

World of Speed:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Publisher: Mad Dog Games | Platforms: WIN, Steam | Release date: 2017-09-22 | Ref.: 

WRC 2: FIA World Rally Championship:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Black Bean Games, CyberFront | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2011-10-14 | Ref.: 

WRC 3: FIA World Rally Championship:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Black Bean Games | Platforms: WIN, PS3, PSV, X360 | Release date: 2012-10-12 | Ref.: 

WRC 4: FIA World Rally Championship:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Black Bean Games | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360, PSV | Release date: 2013-10-25 | Ref.: 

WRC 5:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Publisher: Bigben Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS3, PS4, X360, XOne, PSV | Release date: 2015-10-13 | Ref.: 

WRC 6:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Publisher: Bigben Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2016-10-07 | Ref.: 

WRC 7:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Publisher: Bigben Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2017-09-15 | Ref.: 

WRC 8:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Publisher: Bigben Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-09-05 | Ref.: [ 19 ]

WRC Powerslide:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS3, X360 | Platforms: 2013-03-12 | Release date: [ 20 ]

WRC: FIA World Rally Championship:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: Black Bean Games | Platforms: WIN, PS3, X360 | Release date: 2010-10-07 | Ref.: 

Wrecked: Revenge Revisited:
    Developer: Supersonic Software | Publisher: 505 Games | Platforms: PS3, X360 | Release date: 2012-03-28 | Ref.: 

Wreckfest:
    Developer: Bugbear Entertainment | Publisher: THQ Nordic | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2018-06-14 | Ref.: 

X Games SnoCross:
    Developer: 2XL Games | Publisher: ESPN | Platforms: iOS | Release date: 2010-01-18 | Ref.: 

X Motor Racing:
    Developer: Exotypos | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2013-12-30 | Release date: 

Xenon Racer:
    Developer: 3DClouds | Publisher: Soedesco | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2019-03-26 | Ref.: 

Art of Rally:
    Developer: Funselektor Labs | Publisher: WIN, OSX, LIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2020-09-23 | Release date: 

Assetto Corsa EVO:
    Developer: Kunos Simulazioni | Publisher: Kunos Simulazioni and 505 Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2025-01-16 (Early access) | Ref.: 

Assetto Corsa Rally:
    Developer: Supernova Games Studios  and Kunos Simulazioni | Publisher: 505 Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2025-11-13 (Early access) | Ref.: 

Automobilista 2:
    Developer: Reiza Studios | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2020-03-31 | Release date: 

Bus Simulator 21:
    Developer: Stillalive Studios | Publisher: Astragon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2021-09-07 | Ref.: 

Bus Simulator City Ride:
    Developer: Stillalive Studios | Publisher: Astragon | Platforms: iOS, DROID, NX | Release date: 2022-10-13 | Ref.: 

Chocobo GP:
    Developer: Square Enix | Publisher: NX | Platforms: 2022-03-10 | Release date: 

Circuit Superstars:
    Developer: Original Fire Games | Publisher: Square Enix | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2021-10-12 | Ref.: 

Crew Motorfest, The:
    Developer: Ivory Tower | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-09-14 | Ref.: 

Dakar Desert Rally:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2022-10-04 | Release date: 

Destruction AllStars:
    Developer: Lucid Games | Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: PS5 | Release date: 2021-02-02 | Ref.: 

Dirt 5:
    Developer: Codemasters Cheshire | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-11-06 | Ref.: [ 21 ]

Disney Speedstorm:
    Developer: Gameloft Barcelona | Publisher: Gameloft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX, iOS, DROID | Release date: 2023-09-28 | Ref.: 

EA Sports WRC:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-11-03 | Ref.: 

Expeditions: A MudRunner Game:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2024-03-05 | Ref.: 

F1 2020:
    Developer: Codemasters Birmingham | Publisher: Codemasters | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-07-10 | Ref.: 

F1 2021:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-07-16 | Ref.: 

F1 22:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-07-01 | Ref.: 

F1 23:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-06-16 | Ref.: 

F1 24:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-05-31 | Ref.: 

F1 25:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: EA Sports | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-05-30 | Ref.: 

F1 Manager 2022:
    Developer: Frontier Developments | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2022-08-30 | Release date: 

F1 Manager 2023:
    Developer: Frontier Developments | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2023-07-31 | Release date: 

Fast & Furious Crossroads:
    Developer: Slightly Mad Studios | Publisher: Namco Bandai Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-08-07 | Ref.: 

Fast & Furious: Spy Racers Rise of SH1FT3R:
    Developer: 3DClouds | Publisher: Outright Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2021-11-05 | Ref.: 

Formula Legends:
    Developer: 3DClouds | Publisher: WIN, NX, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2025-09-18 | Release date: 

Forza Customs:
    Developer: Hutch | Publisher: Microsoft Studios , Hutch | Platforms: iOS, DROID | Release date: 2023-11-14 | Ref.: 

Forza Horizon 5:
    Developer: Playground Games | Publisher: Xbox Game Studios | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-11-09 | Ref.: 

Gear.Club Unlimited 2 - Ultimate Edition:
    Developer: Eden Games | Publisher: Microids | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-12-07 | Ref.: [ 22 ]

Gran Turismo 7:
    Developer: Polyphony Digital | Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment | Platforms: PS4, PS5 | Release date: 2022-03-04 | Ref.: 

Grid Legends:
    Developer: Codemasters | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-02-25 | Ref.: 

Horizon Chase 2:
    Developer: Aquiris Game Studio | Publisher: iOS, OSX, WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2022-09-07 | Release date: 

Hot Wheels Unleashed:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2021-09-30 | Release date: 

Hot Wheels Unleashed 2: Turbocharged:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2023-10-19 | Release date: 

Hotshot Racing:
    Developer: Sumo Digital | Publisher: Curve Digital | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2020-09-10 | Ref.: 

Kandagawa Jet Girls:
    Developer: Honey∞Parade Games | Publisher: Marvelous , Xseed Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4 | Release date: 2020-02-14 | Ref.: 

KartKraft:
    Developer: Motorsport Games , Black Delta | Publisher: Motorsport Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2022-01-26 | Ref.: 

KartRider: Drift:
    Developer: Nexon | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, iOS | Platforms: 2023-01-10 | Release date: 

Kirby Air Riders:
    Developer: Bandai Namco Studios | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: NX2 | Release date: 2025-11-20 | Ref.: 

Le Mans Ultimate:
    Developer: Studio 397 | Publisher: Motorsport Games | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2025-07-22 | Ref.: 

Lego 2K Drive:
    Developer: Visual Concepts | Publisher: 2K | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2023-05-19 | Ref.: 

Live for Speed S3:
    Developer: Scawen Roberts, Eric Bailey and Victor van Vlaardingen | Publisher: WIN | Platforms: 2023-12-17 | Release date: 

Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit:
    Developer: Velan Studios | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: NX | Release date: 2020-10-16 | Ref.: 

Mario Kart World:
    Developer: Nintendo EPD, Monolith Soft , 1-Up Studio, Bandai Namco Studios | Publisher: Nintendo | Platforms: NX2 | Release date: 2025-06-05 | Ref.: 

Monster Energy Supercross 25:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2025-04-10 | Release date: 

Monster Energy Supercross 3: The Official Videogame:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Platforms: 2020-02-03 | Release date: 

Monster Energy Supercross 4: The Official Videogame:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2021-03-11 | Release date: 

Monster Energy Supercross 5: The Official Videogame:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2022-03-17 | Release date: 

Monster Energy Supercross 6: The Official Videogame:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2023-03-09 | Release date: 

Monster Jam Showdown:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: THQ Nordic | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2024-08-29 | Ref.: 

Monster Jam: Steel Titans 2:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ Nordic | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2021-03-02 | Ref.: 

MotoGP 20:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Platforms: 2020-04-23 | Release date: 

MotoGP 21:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2021-04-22 | Release date: 

MotoGP 22:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2022-04-21 | Release date: [ 23 ]

MotoGP 23:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2023-06-08 | Release date: 

MotoGP 24:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2024-05-02 | Release date: 

MotoGP 25:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Platforms: 2025-04-30 | Release date: 

MX vs. ATV Legends:
    Developer: Rainbow Studios | Publisher: THQ Nordic | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne | Release date: 2022-06-28 | Ref.: 

MXGP 2020:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2020-12-16 | Release date: 

MXGP 2021:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2021-11-30 | Release date: 

NASCAR 21: Ignition:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Motorsport Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2021-10-26 | Ref.: 

NASCAR 25:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: iRacing | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-10-14 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Arcade Rush:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: GameMill Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2023-09-15 | Ref.: 

NASCAR Heat 5:
    Developer: 704Games | Publisher: Motorsport Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-07-07 | Ref.: [ 24 ]

NASCAR Rivals:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: Motorsport Games | Platforms: NX | Release date: 2022-10-14 | Ref.: 

Need for Speed Unbound:
    Developer: Criterion Games | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-12-02 | Ref.: [ 25 ]

NHRA Championship Drag Racing: Speed for All:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: GameMill Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2022-08-26 | Ref.: 

Nickelodeon Kart Racers 2: Grand Prix:
    Developer: Bamtang Games | Publisher: GameMill Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2022-10-14 | Ref.: 

Nickelodeon Kart Racers 3: Slime Speedway:
    Developer: Bamtang Games | Publisher: GameMill Entertainment, Maximum Games | Platforms: NX, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-10-06 | Ref.: 

Overpass:
    Developer: Zordix | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2020-02-12 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager 2020:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2020-06-04 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager 2021:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2021-06-03 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager 2022:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2022-06-09 | Ref.: 

Pro Cycling Manager 2023:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2023-06-08 | Ref.: 

Project CARS 3:
    Developer: Slightly Mad Studios | Publisher: Bandai Namco Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-08-20 | Ref.: 

Project Motor Racing:
    Developer: Straight4 Studios | Publisher: Giants Software | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-11-25 | Ref.: 

Rennsport:
    Developer: Competition Company and Teyon | Publisher: Competition Company | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-11-13 | Ref.: 

Ride 4:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2020-10-08 | Release date: 

Ride 5:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Platforms: 2023-08-24 | Release date: 

Riders Republic:
    Developer: Ubisoft Annecy | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-10-28 | Ref.: 

Rocket Racing:
    Developer: Psyonix | Publisher: Epic Games | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX, DROID | Release date: 2023-12-08 | Ref.: 

SBK 22:
    Developer: Milestone | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2022-09-15 | Release date: 

SnowRunner:
    Developer: Saber Interactive | Publisher: Focus Home Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne | Release date: 2020-04-28 | Ref.: 

Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds:
    Developer: Sonic Team | Publisher: Sega | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2025-09-25 | Ref.: 

SRX: The Game:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2021-05-28 | Release date: 

Street Outlaws 2: Winner Takes All:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: GameMill Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2021-09-20 | Ref.: 

Taxi Chaos:
    Developer: Team6 Game Studios | Publisher: Lion Castle Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, NX | Release date: 2021-02-23 | Ref.: 

Test Drive Unlimited Solar Crown:
    Developer: JT Racing | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-09-12 | Ref.: 

Tony Stewart's Sprint Car Racing:
    Developer: Monster Games | Publisher: WIN, PS4, XOne | Platforms: 2020-02-14 | Release date: 

Tour de France 2021:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2021-06-03 | Ref.: 

Tour de France 2022:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-06-09 | Ref.: 

Tour de France 2023:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2023-06-08 | Ref.: 

Tour de France 2024:
    Developer: Cyanide | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2024-06-06 | Ref.: 

TrackMania 2020:
    Developer: Nadeo | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2020-07-01 | Ref.: 

Turbo Golf Racing:
    Developer: Hugecalf Studios | Publisher: WIN, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Platforms: 2024-04-04 | Release date: 

What the Car?:
    Developer: Triband | Publisher: WIN, iOS, OSX, tvOS | Platforms: 2023-05-04 | Release date: 

Wheel World:
    Developer: Messhof | Publisher: Annapurna Interactive | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-07-23 | Ref.: 

WRC 10:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2021-09-02 | Ref.: [ 26 ]

WRC 9:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S, NX | Release date: 2020-09-03 | Ref.: [ 27 ]

WRC Generations:
    Developer: Kylotonn | Publisher: Nacon | Platforms: WIN, PS4, PS5, XOne, XSX/S | Release date: 2022-11-03 | Ref.: [ 28 ]

Wreckfest 2:
    Developer: Bugbear Entertainment | Publisher: THQ Nordic | Platforms: WIN | Release date: 2025-03-20 (Early access) | Ref.: 

Wreckreation:
    Developer: Three Fields Entertainment | Publisher: THQ Nordic | Platforms: WIN, PS5, XSX/S | Release date: 2025-10-28 | Ref.: 

Gun Beat:
    Developer: Treasure | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: Unreleased | Release date: 

IMSA World Championship Racing:
    Developer: Studio 3DO | Publisher: M2 | Platforms: Unreleased | Release date: 

Lamborghini:
    Developer: Rage Software | Publisher: Majesco Entertainment | Platforms: WIN, PS2, XBOX, GCN | Release date: Unreleased | Ref.: 

Nitro Racers:
    Developer: Torc Interactive | Publisher: The 3DO Company | Platforms: DOS | Release date: Unreleased | Ref.: 

Rev Limit:
    Developer: SETA Corporation | Publisher: Arcade, 64DD, N64 | Platforms: Unreleased | Release date: 

Vic Viper:
    Developer: Konami | Publisher: Arcade | Platforms: Unreleased | Release date: 

=== Truck simulation ===:
    18 Wheels of Steel series

Artemis: Spaceship Bridge Simulator:
    Release year: 2010 | Developer: Thom Robertson | Publisher: Thom Robertson | Platform: Windows, Android, iOS, WINE | Notes: Multiplayer co-operative spaceship bridge simulator. | References: [ 1 ]

Astroneer:
    Release year: 2016 | Developer: System Era Softworks | Publisher: System Era Softworks | Platform: Windows, Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch (January 2022) | Notes: Outer space mining resources on planets. | References: [ 2 ]

Dreadnought:
    Release year: 2016 | Developer: Yager Development | Publisher: Grey Box | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ 3 ]

Eagle Lander 3D:
    Release year: 2010 | Developer: Ron Monsen | Publisher: Ron Monsen | Platform: Windows | Notes: There are another two versions, in 2D and for VR. | References: [ 4 ]

Hellion:
    Release year: 2017 | Developer: ZeroGravity Games | Publisher:  | Platform: Windows | Notes: Survival with PvP and PvE elements. | References: [ 5 ]

Iron Sky: Invasion:
    Release year: 2012 | Developer: Reality Pump | Publisher: TopWare Interactive | Platform: Windows, Xbox 360 , PlayStation 3 , iOS , Android , Mac OS | Notes: Official video game expansion of the 2012 sci-fi film " Iron Sky ". Combines space combat simulation with strategy and RPG elements. | References: [ 6 ]

Kerbal Space Program:
    Release year: 2011 | Developer: Squad | Publisher: Private Division | Platform: Windows, Mac OS X , Linux , Xbox One | Notes: Features Newtonian physics and patched conic approximation for orbits. It has received critical acclaim and many mods. | References: [ 7 ]

Kinetic Void:
    Release year: 2014 | Developer: Badland Studio | Publisher: Valve | Platform: Microsoft Windows , Mac OS and Linux | Notes:  | References: [ 8 ]

Microsoft Space Simulator:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Bruce Artwick Organization Ltd. | Publisher: Microsoft | Platform: DOS | Notes:  | References: [ 9 ]

Spaceflight Simulator (SFS):
    Release year: 2017 | Developer: Team Curiosity. | Publisher: Private (iOS and Android), Steam (Windows Version) | Platform: Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS | Notes: 2D sandbox spaceflight simulator. Available on both PC and mobile. | References: https://teamcuriosity.com/

Noctis:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: Alessandro Ghignola | Publisher: Alessandro Ghignola | Platform: Windows, DOS | Notes: Occurs in an imaginary universe with futuristic/fictional aspects such as planetary landings and sentient aliens; no weapons or combat. | References: [ citation needed ]

Orbiter:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: Martin Schweiger | Publisher: Martin Schweiger | Platform: Windows | Notes: Accurately simulates the physics and it is moddable. Released as freeware . Current release August 2016 | References: [ 10 ]

Project Space Station:
    Release year: 1985 | Developer: HESware | Publisher: HESware | Platform: Commodore 64 , Apple II , DOS | Notes: Four-part gameplay: administration of a space station program; shuttle launches, using a highly abstracted navigation system; assembling space station parts using an EVA pod ; and shuttle landings using a 2D representation. | References: [ citation needed ]

Reentry - An Orbital Simulator:
    Release year: 2018 | Developer: Wilhelmsen Studios | Publisher: Wilhelmsen Studios | Platform: Microsoft Windows | Notes: Simulates launch, flight, and reentry for the Project Mercury , Project Gemini , and Apollo program spacecraft [ 11 ] | References: 

Rendezvous: A Space Shuttle Simulation:
    Release year: 1982 | Developer: Wes Huntress | Publisher: Edu-Ware Services | Platform: Apple II | Notes: Simulates shuttle launch, rendezvous with space station, and docking. | References: [ 12 ]

Rise: The Vieneo Province:
    Release year: 2006 | Developer: Jason Reskin | Publisher: Unistellar Industries, LLC | Platform: Microsoft Windows | Notes: Simulates futuristic VTOL vehicles, space stations, reentry. | References: [ 13 ]

Shuttle: the Space Flight Simulator:
    Release year: 1992 | Developer: Vektor Grafix | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platform: DOS, Amiga , Atari ST | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Space Shuttle: A Journey into Space:
    Release year: 1983 | Developer: Jessica Stevens [ Note 1 ] | Publisher: Activision | Platform: Amstrad CPC , Atari 2600 , Atari 5200 , Atari 8-bit, Commodore 64, MSX , ZX Spectrum | Notes:  | References: [ 14 ] [ 15 ]

Space Shuttle Mission 2007:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: Exciting Simulations | Publisher: Simsquared Ltd. | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Juno: New Origins:
    Release year: 2023 | Developer: Jundroo | Publisher: Jundroo | Platform: Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS | Notes: 3D aerospace sandbox where players can use customizable parts to construct and test rockets, planes, cars, or anything they can imagine in an environment with realistic physics across land, sea, air, and space. It entered early access on Steam with the name Simplerockets 2 in 2018. | References: 

Astra Protocol 2:
    Release year: 2022 | Developer: Slice Bar | Publisher: Slice Bar | Platform: Windows | Notes: Retrofuturism inspired survival game with text-based commands

Flight of Nova:
    Release year: 2022 | Developer: Aerovery Lab | Publisher: Aerovery Lab | Platform: Windows, Linux | Notes: Based on Newtonian physics and real life orbital dynamics | References: [ 16 ] [ 17 ]

Kerbal Space Program 2:
    Release year: 2023 | Developer: Private Division , Intercept Games | Publisher: Intercept Games | Platform: Windows, Xbox, PlayStation | Notes: Sequel to the critically acclaimed game Kerbal Space Program . Development ceased while still in Early-Access. | References: [ 18 ] [ 19 ]

Historic Landings:
    Release year: 2024 | Developer: Burak Alparslan Kaya | Publisher: Burak Alparslan Kaya | Platform: Android | Notes: Arcade style moon landing game where players aim for the highest possible score with different landers. | References: [ 20 ] [ 21 ]

Age of Ascent:
    Release year: TBA | Developer: Illyriad Games | Publisher: Illyriad Games | Platform: Multiplatform, Windows, Macintosh | Notes: Space MMO with real-time dog fighting. | References: [ citation needed ]

Spaceflight Simulator 2 (SFS 2):
    Release year: 2025 | Developer: Team Curiosity | Publisher: Team Curiosity | Platform: Steam, IOS, Android | Notes: 3D sequel to the Spaceflight Simulator game. A reveal trailer has been released by the developers, and the release is expected in Early 2025. | References: https://teamcuriosity.com/

Kitten Space Agency:
    Release year: 2025 (Alpha) | Developer: RocketWerkz | Publisher: RocketWerkz | Platform: Download / Torrent on PC | Notes: Spiritual successor to Kerbal Space Program, using a custom framework. Will not be released on steam, instead using a "torrent client" and downloads. An alpha with orbital physics is planned for 2025. | References: 

Babylon 5: Into the Fire:
    Release year: N/A | Developer: Yosemite Entertainment | Publisher: Sierra | Platform: Windows | Notes: Combat Simulator | References: 

Jumpgate Evolution:
    Release year: N/A | Developer: NetDevil | Publisher: Codemasters | Platform: Windows | Notes: MMORPG | References: [ citation needed ]

3D Star Racer:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: BlazeDev | Publisher: ClickGamer | Platform: Windows Mobile | Notes: FMV -style simulator | References: [ citation needed ]

Absolute Zero:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Domark | Publisher: Domark | Platform: MS-DOS, Mac | Notes:  | References: 

Acamar Rising:
    Release year: 2005 | Developer: Beteo Software and Games | Publisher: Beteo Software and Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Ace of Angels:
    Release year: 2002 | Developer: Flying Rock Enterprises | Publisher: Flying Rock Enterprises | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Aces of the Galaxy:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: Artech Digital Entertainment | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platform: Windows, Xbox 360 Live | Notes:  | References: 

Allegiance:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: Microsoft | Publisher: Microsoft | Platform: Windows | Notes: Official servers shut down in 2002; as of 2012, developed and maintained by volunteers and free to download from their official site. | References: 

Ambush:
    Release year: 1983 | Developer: Nippon Amuse Co. Ltd | Publisher: Nippon Amuse Co. Ltd. | Platform: Arcade | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Anthelion: The Galactic Alliance:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: PDAmill | Publisher: PDAmill | Platform: Windows Mobile | Notes:  | References: 

Anthelion 2: Celestial Vigilance:
    Release year: 2006 | Developer: PDAmill | Publisher: PDAmill | Platform: Windows Mobile | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Ares Rising:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Imagine Studios | Publisher: Imagine Studios | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Argon 3D:
    Release year: 2006 | Developer: Mediaplazza | Publisher: Clickgamer | Platform: Java ME | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Arvoch Alliance:
    Release year: 2011 | Developer: StarWraith 3D Games | Publisher: StarWraith 3D Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Astron Belt:
    Release year: 1983 | Developer: Sega | Publisher: Sega | Platform: Arcade | Notes: Considered the first laserdisc video game | References: [ 25 ]

A/X-101:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Absolute Entertainment , Micronet | Publisher: Sega | Platform: Sega CD | Notes: FMV-style simulator | References: 

Backlash: A Turret Gunner Simulation:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Sanctuary Software Studio | Publisher: Sanctuary Software Studio | Platform: DOS | Notes: Also known as Backlash: Assault on Omicron Station | References: 

Babylon 5: I've Found Her:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Space Dream Factory | Publisher: Space Dream Factory | Platform: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux | Notes: Freeware ; uses its own game engine; set in the universe of Babylon 5 | References: [ 26 ]

The Babylon Project:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: The Babylon Project | Publisher: The Babylon Project | Platform: Windows | Notes: Freeware mod to Volition's FreeSpace 2 | References: [ 27 ]

Bang! Gunship Elite:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: RayLand | Publisher: Red Storm Entertainment | Platform: Dreamcast , Windows | Notes:  | References: 

BattleSphere:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: 4Play/ScatoLogic | Publisher: 4Play/ScatoLogic | Platform: Jaguar | Notes: First video game with a 32-player network ability; one of the most rare and expensive games to find | References: 

Battlestar Galactica:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Warthog | Publisher: Vivendi Universal Games | Platform: Xbox , PlayStation 2 | Notes:  | References: 

Battlestar Galactica: Beyond the Red Line:
    Release year: 2007 | Developer: Beyond the Red Line team | Publisher: Beyond the Red Line team | Platform: Windows, Linux , Mac OS X | Notes: Freeware mod to FreeSpace Open ; in February 2008, it won Mod DB 's Mod of the Year Award for Best Indie Game | References: 

Black Prophecy:
    Release year: 2011 | Developer: Reakktor Media GMBH | Publisher: Reakktor Media GMBH | Platform: Windows | Notes: MMORPG with a maximum number of players on each server limited to 300 | References: [ 28 ]

Blast Radius:
    Release year: 1999 | Developer: Pitbull Syndicate | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platform: PlayStation | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Cellblock Squadrons:
    Release year: 2005 | Developer: Super Furious Software | Publisher: Super Furious Software | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Chorus:
    Release year: 2021 | Developer: Fishlabs | Publisher: Deep Silver | Platform: Microsoft Windows, Xbox Series X/S, Xbox One, PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, Stadia, Luna | Notes:  | References: 

Codename MAT:
    Release year: 1984 | Developer: Derek Brewster | Publisher: Micromega | Platform: ZX Spectrum, Amstrad CPC | Notes: sub-system damage and repair simulation. | References: 

Colony Wars:
    Release year: 1997 | Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platform: PlayStation | Notes:  | References: 

Colony Wars: Vengeance:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platform: PlayStation | Notes:  | References: 

Colony Wars: Red Sun:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platform: PlayStation | Notes:  | References: 

Creature Shock:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Argonaut Games | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platform: PC , 3DO , PlayStation, Sega Saturn , CD-i | Notes: Parts of this FMV game include space combat; these parts are omitted from the PlayStation, Saturn, and CD-i versions | References: 

Darklight Conflict:
    Release year: 1997 | Developer: Rage Software | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

DarkStar One:
    Release year: 2006 | Developer: Ascaron | Publisher: cdv Software Entertainment AG | Platform: Windows, Xbox 360 | Notes:  | References: 

Darxide EMP:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Frontier Developments | Publisher: Frontier Developments | Platform: Windows Mobile, Symbian, Sega 32X , Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Death Star:
    Release year: 1970s | Developer: Gene Ball | Publisher: University of Rochester | Platform: Xerox Alto | Notes: Described in 1982 as "you pilot your Alto down a trench in the Death Star and fire a torpedo in its only vulnerable spot to save the Federation ... No still photograph can describe the fine graphic detail". | References: [ 29 ]

Deep Space Attack:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Pimap | Publisher: ClickGamer | Platform: Java ME | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Descent: FreeSpace – The Great War:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Volition | Publisher: Interplay | Platform: Windows, Amiga | Notes:  | References: 

Destination Earthstar:
    Release year: 1990 | Developer: Imagineering | Publisher: Acclaim | Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System | Notes:  | References: 

Diaspora: Shattered Armistice:
    Release year: 2012 | Developer: Diaspora Development team | Publisher: Diaspora Development team | Platform: Windows, Linux, Mac OS X | Notes: Freeware game based on FreeSpace Open set in the reimagined Battlestar Galactica universe | References: 

Drift: When Worlds Collide:
    Release year: 2002 | Developer: Redward Studios | Publisher: Cosmi Corporation | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Endless Space 2:
    Release year: 2017 | Developer: AMPLITUDE Studios | Publisher: Sega | Platform: Windows, Mac OS X | Notes: Endless Space 2 is a strategic space opera set in a mysterious universe. Your story unfolds in a galaxy that was first colonized by God-like beings known as the "Endless", who rose and fell eons ago. All that remains of them are mystical ruins, powerful artifacts, and a strange, near-magical substance known as Dust. | References: 

Epic:
    Release year: 1992 | Developer: Digital Image Design | Publisher: Ocean Software | Platform: Amiga, Atari ST, MS-DOS, NEC PC-9801 | Notes:  | References: 

Everspace:
    Release year: 2017 | Developer: Rockfish Games | Publisher: Rockfish Games | Platform: Microsoft Windows, macOS , Linux, PlayStation 4 , Xbox One, Nintendo Switch | Notes: Single-player 3D space shooter with rogue-like elements and non-linear storytelling. | References: 

Eve: Valkyrie:
    Release year: 2016 | Developer: CCP Games | Publisher: CCP Games | Platform: Windows, PlayStation 4 | Notes: Uses virtual reality headsets | References: 

FreeSpace 2:
    Release year: 1999 | Developer: Volition | Publisher: Interplay | Platform: Windows, FS2 SCP was also ported to Linux and Mac OS X | Notes: In 2002, Volition released the source code for the game engine which is under development as FreeSpace 2 Source Code Project ; FS2 SCP is the base to many user created mods | References: 

FreeSpace Port:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: GalacticEmperor | Publisher: Hard Light Productions | Platform: Windows, Linux, Mac OS X | Notes: Allows users to play full campaign of original FreeSpace and Silent Threat using updated graphics engine from FreeSpace 2 Source Code Project | References: [ citation needed ]

Forced Alliance:
    Release year: 1997 | Developer: Ripcord Games | Publisher: Orbital Studios | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

FurtherTime:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Maxim Vorsobine | Publisher: Maxim Vorsobine | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Galactic Command - Echo Squad: Rise Of The Insurgents:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: 3000AD | Publisher: GameTap | Platform: Windows | Notes: Also, Echo Squad SE | References: 

Galactic Federation:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Radivoj Radivojevic | Publisher: AM-Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Galactic Gunner:
    Release year: 2009 | Developer: Ezone.com | Publisher: iTunes Store | Platform: iOS | Notes: Rail shooter style combat | References: [ citation needed ]

Galactic Realms:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Crimson Fire Entertainment | Publisher: Crimson Fire Entertainment | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Hellhog XP:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: StateVector Games | Publisher: StateVector Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

HomePlanet:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Revolt Games | Publisher: 3Map Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Homeplanet: Play with Fire:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Revolt Games | Publisher: 3Map Games | Platform: Windows | Notes: Expansion to original game, installing the expansion adds multiplayer support to the game | References: [ 30 ]

House of the Dying Sun:
    Release year: 2016 | Developer: Marauder Interactive | Publisher: Marauder Interactive | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Inca:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Coktel Vision | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platform: Windows | Notes: Contains a Myst -like FMV graphic adventure game | References: 

Inca II: Nations of Immortality:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Coktel Vision | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platform: Windows | Notes: Also called Inca II: Wiracocha ; contains a Myst -like FMV graphic adventure game | References: 

Inca I & II (Collector's Edition):
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Coktel Vision | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Incoming: The Final Conflict:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Rage Software | Publisher: InterplayUS, Imagineer JP | Platform: Dreamcast , Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Incoming Forces:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Rage Software | Publisher: Interplay | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Inferno:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Digital Image Design | Publisher: Ocean Software | Platform: MS-DOS | Notes: Sequel to Epic | References: 

Interstellar Flames:
    Release year: 2002 | Developer: Xen Games, Eon Games | Publisher: Xen Games | Platform: Windows Mobile, Linux, Palm OS , Symbian | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Independence War:
    Release year: 1997 | Developer: Particle Systems | Publisher: Infogrames | Platform: Windows | Notes: Released in Europe as I-War | References: 

Independence War – Deluxe Edition:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Particle Systems | Publisher: Infogrames | Platform: Windows | Notes: Released in Europe as I-War Special Edition this installment has the Defiance Expansion Pack; the expansion pack was never released alone | References: 

Independence War 2: Edge of Chaos:
    Release year: 2001 | Developer: Particle Systems | Publisher: Infogrames Entertainment SA | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Lander:
    Release year: 1999 | Developer: Psygnosis | Publisher: Psygnosis | Platform: Windows | Notes: Included single and multi-player gameplay; released as a "Special Edition Pack" which included both CD-ROM and DVD-ROM versions; DVD version included added video cut scenes between missions | References: 

Leo's Space Combat Simulator:
    Release year: 2007 | Developer: Leopoldo Bueno Castillo | Publisher: Leopoldo Bueno Castillo | Platform: Windows Mobile | Notes: This game is freeware | References: [ citation needed ]

The Last Dynasty:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Coktel Vision | Publisher: Sierra Entertainment | Platform: Windows | Notes: Contains a Myst -like FMV graphic adventure game that occurs aboard a giant space station | References: [ 31 ]

Lunar Rescue:
    Release year: 1979 | Developer: Taito | Publisher: Taito | Platform: Arcade | Notes:  | References: 

Mercenary series:
    Release year: 1985 | Developer: Novagen Software | Publisher: Novagen Software | Platform: Atari 8-bit , Commodore 64 , ZX Spectrum , Amstrad CPC , Atari ST , Amiga , Commodore 16/116/Plus/4 | Notes: 3D open world action-adventure. The second and third parts of the series involved interplanetary travel within a solar system. | References: 

Metalion:
    Release year: 2002 | Developer: ZIO Interactive | Publisher: ZIO Interactive | Platform: Windows Mobile | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Metalion 2: Mutant Uprising:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: ZIO Interactive | Publisher: ZIO Interactive | Platform: Windows Mobile | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Mobile Suit Gundam: Last Shooting:
    Release year: 1984 | Developer:  | Publisher: Bandai | Platform: MSX | Notes:  | References: 

Mobile Suit Z-Gundam: Hot Scramble:
    Release year: 1986 | Developer: Game Studio | Publisher: Bandai | Platform: NES | Notes:  | References: 

N-Space:
    Release year: 2005 | Developer: Monkey Business | Publisher: Nokia SNAP Mobile | Platform: Java ME | Notes: One of the few MMOG space combat sim games for mobile phones | References: [ citation needed ]

Nexus: The Jupiter Incident:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Mithis Entertainment | Publisher: Vivendi Universal / HD Interactive | Platform: Windows | Notes: Focuses on tactics and ship management instead of resource collection and base construction. Previously "Imperium Galactica 3". | References: 

Nihilist:
    Release year: 1996 | Developer: Bits Corporation | Publisher: Philips | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Phoenix:
    Release year: 1999 | Developer: Team17 | Publisher: Titus Interactive | Platform: Windows | Notes: Has a dynamic campaign structure | References: 

Phoenix 3:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Gray Matter Inc. | Publisher: Studio 3DO | Platform: 3DO | Notes: Combination of Flashback / Another World platforming with Wing Commander-esque flight sequences | References: 

No Gravity:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: realtech VR | Publisher: Titus Interactive | Platform: Windows, Linux, Mac OS , Amiga OS , BeOS , PSP | Notes: Is also named Space Girl ; released as freeware | References: 

No Gravity: The Plague of Mind:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: realtech VR | Publisher: PlayStation Store , iTunes App Store | Platform: PSP, iOS | Notes: Sequel to No Gravity produced 10 years after original title | References: 

Open Galaxy:
    Release year: 2023 | Developer: MichaelEGA | Publisher: indieDB | Platform: Windows | Notes: Freeware made with the Unity Engine | References: 

Project Sylpheed:
    Release year: 2006 | Developer: Game Arts , SETA Corporation | Publisher: Microsoft, Square Enix | Platform: Xbox 360 | Notes:  | References: 

Psi-5 Trading Company:
    Release year: 1985 | Developer: Distinctive Software | Publisher: Accolade | Platform: Amstrad CPC , MS-DOS , Commodore 64 , Apple II , ZX Spectrum | Notes:  | References: 

Romanians in Space:
    Release year: 2007 | Developer: 2 Bad Design | Publisher: 2 Bad Design | Platform: Windows | Notes: Incited controversy in Hungary as it depicts the Romanians having conquered the Earth now beginning to conquer the galaxy; full version released as freeware [ 33 ] | References: 

Shattered Worlds – Space Combat:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Skwork Studis | Publisher: Astraware | Platform: Windows Mobile, Palm OS | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Shattered Worlds – Planet Assault:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Skwork Studio | Publisher: Astraware | Platform: Windows Mobile, Palm OS | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Shadow Squadron:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Sega | Publisher: Sega | Platform: Sega 32X | Notes:  | References: 

Shockwave Assault:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Dice | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: 3DO, Saturn , PlayStation, Mac OS, Windows | Notes: FMV style simulator, released on the 3DO as simply Shockwave | References: 

Shockwave: Operation Jumpgate:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Dice | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: 3DO, PlayStation | Notes: FMV style simulator expansion pack, included as a bonus in most versions of Shockwave Assault | References: 

Shockwave 2: Beyond The Gate:
    Release year: 1997 | Developer: Dice | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: Saturn, PlayStation, Mac OS, Windows, 3DO | Notes: FMV style simulator | References: 

Silent Threat: Reborn:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: GalacticEmperor & Goober5000 | Publisher: Hard Light Productions | Platform: Windows, Linux, Mac OS X | Notes: 18 missions based on the original Silent Threat , 8 of the missions are original; all are made possible using the updated graphics engine from FreeSpace 2 Source Code Project | References: [ citation needed ]

Skyfox II: The Cygnus Conflict:
    Release year: 1987 | Developer: Dynamix, Inc. | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: MS-DOS , Amiga, Atari ST , Commodore 64 | Notes: Set in space, may be viewed as a mix of space sim and first-person shooter | References: 

Solar Eclipse:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Crystal Dynamics | Publisher: Crystal Dynamics | Platform: Saturn, 3DO | Notes: FMV style simulator | References: 

Solar Winds : The Escape:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Stone Interactive Media | Publisher: Epic MegaGames | Platform: DOS | Notes: Chapter 1 shareware version | References: 

Solar Winds : Galaxy:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Stone Interactive Media | Publisher: Epic MegaGames | Platform: DOS | Notes: Chapter 2 | References: 

SOL: Exodus:
    Release year: 2012 | Developer: Seamless Entertainment | Publisher: Seamless Entertainment | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Space Encounters:
    Release year: 1980 | Developer: Namco | Publisher: Namco | Platform: Arcade | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Space Seeker:
    Release year: 1981 | Developer: Taito | Publisher: Taito | Platform: Arcade | Notes:  | References: 

Space Tactics:
    Release year: 1980 | Developer: Sega | Publisher: Sega | Platform: Arcade | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Star Assault:
    Release year: 2007 | Developer: Kalypso | Publisher: GamesArk | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

StarBlade:
    Release year: 1991 | Developer: Namco | Publisher: Namco | Platform: Arcade, Sega CD, 3DO, PlayStation | Notes: Early full 3D polygonal game | References: 

Star Conflict:
    Release year: 2012 | Developer: StarGem Inc | Publisher: Gaijin Entertainment | Platform: Windows, Macintosh, Linux | Notes: Free to play 3D arcade space-shooter, MMO elements. | References: 

Star Crusader:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Take-Two Interactive | Publisher: Take-Two Publishing | Platform: Amiga , CD32 , MS-DOS | Notes:  | References: 

Star Fighter:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Fednet Krisalis | Publisher: Acclaim Entertainment | Platform: Acorn Archimedes , 3DO, Saturn, Windows, PlayStation | Notes: Released in 1996 for the 3DO and the Sega Saturn under the slightly changed name Star Fighter 3000 | References: 

StarMade:
    Release year: 2013 | Developer: Schema | Publisher: Schema | Platform: Windows, Macintosh, Linux | Notes: Freeware. Currently in Alpha. Voxel based, spaceship building game. | References: [ 36 ]

Star Quest I: In the 27th Century:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Paul Lauzon | Publisher: Virtual Adventures Inc. | Platform: MS-DOS | Notes: 3D space combat, exploration and race Simulator | References: 

Star Rangers:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Interactive Magic | Publisher: Interactive Magic | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Star Trek: Invasion:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: Warthog | Publisher: Activision | Platform: PlayStation | Notes:  | References: 

Star Trek: Klingon Academy:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: 14 Degrees East | Publisher: Interplay | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Star Trek: Shattered Universe:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Starsphere Interactive | Publisher: TDK Mediactive | Platform: Xbox, PlayStation 2 | Notes:  | References: 

Star Trek: Starfleet Academy:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: High Voltage Software | Publisher: Interplay | Platform: Windows, Super NES , Mega Drive , Mac OS | Notes:  | References: 

Star Trek: Tactical Assault:
    Release year: 2006 | Developer: Quicksilver Software | Publisher: Bethesda Softworks | Platform: Nintendo DS , PSP | Notes:  | References: 

Star Trek: The Next Generation: Advanced Holodeck Tutorial:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Imagineering | Publisher: Absolute Entertainment | Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System , Game Boy , Game Gear | Notes:  | References: 

Star Voyager:
    Release year: 1986 | Developer: ASCII Entertainment | Publisher: Acclaim | Platform: Nintendo Entertainment System | Notes: Released in Japan as Cosmo Genesis | References: 

Star Wars: Arcade:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Sega | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Arcade, Sega 32X | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: Trilogy Arcade:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: AM3 | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Arcade | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: Battle for Naboo:
    Release year: 2001 | Developer: Factor 5 | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Nintendo 64 , Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron:
    Release year: 2009 | Developer: Rebellion Developments (PSP), N-Space (DS) | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Nintendo DS , PSP | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: Rebel Assault:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: LucasArts | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: DOS (Windows re-release), Sega CD, Macintosh, 3DO | Notes: FMV style simulator | References: 

Star Wars: Rebel Assault II: The Hidden Empire:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: LucasArts | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: DOS, Windows, Sega CD, Macintosh, PlayStation | Notes: FMV style simulator | References: 

Star Wars: Rogue Squadron:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Factor 5 | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Windows, Nintendo 64 | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader:
    Release year: 2001 | Developer: Factor 5 | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: GameCube | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Factor 5 | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: GameCube | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: Starfighter:
    Release year: 2001 | Developer: LucasArts | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: PlayStation 2, Xbox, Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter:
    Release year: 2002 | Developer: LucasArts | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: PlayStation 2, Xbox | Notes: Sequel to 2001 Starfighter | References: 

Star Wars: TIE Fighter:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: DOS, Windows, Mac OS | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: TIE Fighter – Defender of the Empire:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: DOS, Mac OS | Notes: Expansion pack for the original TIE Fighter | References: 

Star Wars: TIE Fighter (Collector's CD-ROM Edition):
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: DOS, Windows, Mac OS | Notes: TIE Fighter plus the expansion pack and improved features | References: 

Star Wars: X-Wing:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: DOS, Macintosh | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: X-Wing – Imperial Pursuit:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: DOS, Macintosh | Notes: Expansion pack for the original X-Wing | References: 

Star Wars: X-Wing – B-Wing:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: DOS, Mac OS | Notes: Expansion pack for the original X-Wing | References: 

Star Wars: X-Wing (Collector's CD-ROM Edition):
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: DOS, Windows, Mac OS | Notes: Includes both expansion packs and improved features | References: 

Star Wars: X-Wing Collector Series Edition:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Windows | Notes: Includes both X-Wing , and TIE Fighter games with all expansion packs from both games, plus a flight training school add-on; integrated in this game is the X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter 3d accelerated engine | References: 

Star Wars: X-Wing Trilogy:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: X-Wing Trilogy Arcade:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: AM3 | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Arcade | Notes: Rail shooter style combat | References: 

Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance:
    Release year: 1999 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter:
    Release year: 1997 | Developer: Totally Games | Publisher: LucasArts | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wars: Squadrons:
    Release year: 2020 | Developer: Motive Studios | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One | Notes:  | References: 

SpaceCombat:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: Cilcoder | Publisher: Xbox Live | Platform: Xbox 360 | Notes: Very basic cartoon styled space combat game | References: 

Space Combat:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: MyRealGames.com | Publisher: MyRealGames.com | Platform: Windows | Notes: Freeware | References: 

Space Interceptor: Project Freedom:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Merscom | Publisher: City Interactive | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Space Rebellion:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Phoenix Games | Publisher: Phoenix Games | Platform: PlayStation 2 | Notes: Released for PlayStation 2 only; a Windows game with the same name was published by Grabituk.com, but it is not a space flight simulator | References: 

Starglider:
    Release year: 1986 | Developer: Argonaut Games | Publisher: Rainbird Software | Platform: Amiga, Amstrad CPC , Apple II, Atari ST, Commodore 64, ZX Spectrum | Notes:  | References: 

Starship 1:
    Release year: 1977 | Developer: Atari | Publisher: Atari | Platform: Arcade | Notes:  | References: 

Starship Command:
    Release year: 1983 | Developer: Peter Irvin | Publisher: Acornsoft | Platform: Acorn Electron, BBC Micro | Notes:  | References: 

Starlancer:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: Digital Anvil | Publisher: Microsoft | Platform: Windows, Dreamcast | Notes:  | References: 

Starlink: Battle for Atlas:
    Release year: 2018 | Developer: Ubisoft Toronto | Publisher: Ubisoft | Platform: Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One | Notes:  | References: 

Starmaster:
    Release year: 1982 | Developer: Activision | Publisher: Activision | Platform: Atari 2600 | Notes:  | References: 

Starshatter:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Destroyer Studios | Publisher: Matrix Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Starshatter: The Gathering Storm:
    Release year: 2006 | Developer: Destroyer Studios | Publisher: Matrix Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Starship Conquer:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Michael Molkenthin | Publisher: Enjoy Soft | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Star Wraith:
    Release year: 1999 | Developer: StarWraith 3D Games | Publisher: StarWraith 3D Games | Platform: Windows | Notes: Released as freeware | References: 

Star Wraith II:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: StarWraith 3D Games | Publisher: StarWraith 3D Games | Platform: Windows | Notes: Released as freeware | References: 

Star Wraith III: Shadows of Orion:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: StarWraith 3D Games | Publisher: StarWraith 3D Games | Platform: Windows | Notes: Released as freeware | References: 

Star Wraith IV: Reviction:
    Release year: 2002 | Developer: StarWraith 3D Games | Publisher: StarWraith 3D Games | Platform: Windows | Notes: Released as freeware | References: 

Strike Suit Zero:
    Release year: 2013 | Developer: Born Ready Games | Publisher: Born Ready Games | Platform: Windows, Mac OS, Linux, Nintendo Switch | Notes:  | References: 

Sublevel Zero:
    Release year: 2015 | Developer: Sigtrap Games | Publisher: Sigtrap Games | Platform: Windows, Mac OS, SteamOS | Notes: Features 6-DOF gameplay across procedurally-generated levels | References: 

SubSpace:
    Release year: 1997 | Developer: Burst Studios | Publisher: Virgin Interactive | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Tac/Scan:
    Release year: 1982 | Developer: Sega | Publisher: Sega | Platform: Arcade | Notes:  | References: 

Tarr Chronicles:
    Release year: 2007 | Developer: Quazar Studio | Publisher: Akella , cdv Software Entertainment , Paradox Interactive | Platform: Windows | Notes: Russian name was Tarr Chronicles: Ghosts of Stars , English release removed words from name | References: 

Dark Horizon:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: Quazar Studio | Publisher: Akella, Paradox Interactive | Platform: Windows | Notes: Prequel to Akella's Tarr Chronicles: Ghosts of Stars and set 100 years prior, introduces a new race, new control modes, more advanced ship modification; Russian release is named Tarr Chronicles: Guards of the Frontier , English release is named Dark Horizon | References: 

The Earth Dies Screaming:
    Release year: 1983 | Developer: Sirius Software | Publisher: 20th Century Fox | Platform: Atari 2600 | Notes: Also was released for VIC-20 and Atari 8-bit under the name Final Orbit | References: 

The Tomorrow War:
    Release year: 2009 | Developer: CrioLand | Publisher: 1C , 505 Games | Platform: Windows | Notes: Space sim based on a trilogy of novels written by a famous Russian author, Alexander Zorich ; game was originally released in Russia in 2006, however the new release suffered from a poor English translation | References: [ 39 ]

Virtual Impact:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Erik Koenig | Publisher: VirtualImpactGames | Platform: Windows | Notes: Described as space combat sim plus sports match | References: [ 40 ]

Void Destroyer:
    Release year: 2015 | Developer: Paul Zakrzewski | Publisher: Paul Zakrzewski | Platform: Windows | Notes: RTS/sim hybrid. Pilot a single ship in first-person combat, or control the entire fleet using the mouse. | References: 

WarpSpeed:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Accolade | Publisher: Accolade | Platform: Sega Mega Drive | Notes:  | References: 

Wing Commander:
    Release year: 1990 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Origin Systems | Platform: DOS, Amiga, Sega CD, Super NES, 3DO | Notes:  | References: 

Wing Commander: The Secret Missions:
    Release year: 1990 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Origin Systems | Platform: DOS, Amiga, Super NES | Notes: Expansion pack for the original Wing Commander | References: 

Wing Commander: The Secret Missions 2: Crusade:
    Release year: 1991 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Origin Systems | Platform: DOS, Amiga | Notes: Expansion pack for the original Wing Commander | References: 

Super Wing Commander:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Origin Systems | Platform: 3DO, Macintosh | Notes: Contained Secret Missions, and special third campaign was also created between the two expansions | References: 

Wing Commander II: Vengeance of the Kilrathi:
    Release year: 1991 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Origin Systems | Platform: DOS | Notes:  | References: 

Wing Commander III: Heart of the Tiger:
    Release year: 1994 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Origin Systems | Platform: DOS, 3DO, PlayStation, Macintosh | Notes:  | References: 

Wing Commander: The Kilrathi Saga:
    Release year: 1996 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Origin Systems | Platform: Windows | Notes: Recompilation of the first three Wing Commander games; expansion packs must be downloaded separately as they were not shipped on the CD but were made available online for free | References: 

Wing Commander IV: The Price of Freedom:
    Release year: 1996 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: DOS, Windows, PlayStation, Macintosh | Notes:  | References: 

Wing Commander: Prophecy:
    Release year: 1997 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: Windows, GBA | Notes:  | References: 

Wing Commander: Secret Ops:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: Windows | Notes: Expansion pack for the original Wing Commander: Prophecy | References: 

Wing Commander: Prophecy Gold:
    Release year: 1999 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: Windows | Notes: Contains the original Wing Commander: Prophecy and the expansion pack Wing Commander: Secret Ops | References: 

Wing Commander Arena:
    Release year: 2007 | Developer: Gaia Industries | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: Xbox 360 ( XBLA ) | Notes:  | References: 

X-Plane: Space Combat Sim:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: Laminar Research | Publisher: Laminar Research | Platform: Windows, Linux, Mac OS X | Notes: Released as freeware | References: 

X-COM: Interceptor:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Microprose | Publisher: Microprose | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

X – Ekkusu:
    Release year: 1992 | Developer: Nintendo | Publisher: Nintendo | Platform: Game Boy | Notes: Released in Japan only; to be followed by a DSiWare exclusive sequel, X-Scape | References: 

Xenocracy:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Simis | Publisher: Grolier Interactive | Platform: Windows, PlayStation | Notes:  | References: 

XF5700 Mantis Experimental Fighter:
    Release year: 1992 | Developer: Microprose | Publisher: Microprose | Platform: DOS | Notes:  | References: 

Jupiter Strike:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Taito | Publisher: Interplay | Platform: Windows, PlayStation | Notes:  | References: 

Renegade: The Battle for Jacob's Star:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Midnight Software | Publisher: Strategic Simulations Inc | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: 

Warhead:
    Release year: 1989 | Developer: Motion Picture House | Publisher: Activision | Platform: Amiga , Atari ST | Notes: Mission based. Newtonian flight model. Designed by Glyn Williams. | References: 

Heat Signature:
    Release year: 2017 | Developer: Suspicious Developments | Publisher: Suspicious Developments | Platform: PC | Notes: Top-down shooter which lets players fly through space to board ships and take down factions through killing and strategy.

Void Crew:
    Release year: 2023 | Developer: Hutlihut Games | Publisher: Focus Entertainment | Platform: PC | Notes:  | References: 

3030 Deathwar:
    Release year: 2007 | Developer: Bird in Sky | Publisher: Crunchy Leaf Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Archimedean Dynasty:
    Release year: 1996 | Developer: Massive Development | Publisher: Blue Byte | Platform: MS-DOS | Notes: Play occurs in a submarine and under the ocean; many reviews have stated the look and feel of this game as that of a space sim. | References: [ 41 ] [ 42 ]

Battlecruiser 3000AD:
    Release year: 1996 | Developer: 3000AD | Publisher: Take Two Interactive Software , GameTek | Platform: Windows | Notes: All Battlecruiser and Universal Combat games feature trade. | References: [ 43 ]

Starpoint Gemini 2:
    Release year: 2014 | Developer: LGM Games | Publisher: Iceberg Interactive | Platform: Microsoft Windows , Xbox One | Notes: Space trading and combat sim / RPG . | References: [ citation needed ]

DarkStar One: Broken Alliance:
    Release year: 2010 | Developer: Gaming Minds Studios | Publisher: Kalypso Media | Platform: Xbox 360 | Notes: Enhanced and extended from its predecessor, on Xbox 360 only. | References: [ 44 ]

Earth & Beyond:
    Release year: 2002 | Developer: Westwood | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: Windows, Mac OS X , Linux | Notes: MMORPG ; Electronic Arts officially shut down this game's servers in 2004, but as of 2011, a fan-made revival project is working on an emulator. | References: [ 45 ]

Elite:
    Release year: 1984 | Developer: David Braben , Ian Bell | Publisher: Acornsoft , Firebird | Platform: Acorn Archimedes , Acorn Electron , Amiga , Amstrad CPC , Apple II , Atari ST , BBC Micro , Commodore 64 , DOS, MSX , NES , ZX Spectrum | Notes: A seminal work in the genre; many other games on these lists show influence by it. | References: [ citation needed ]

Elite Dangerous:
    Release year: 2014 | Developer: Frontier Developments | Publisher: Frontier Developments | Platform: Windows, OS X, PS4 , Xbox One | Notes: The fourth game in the Elite series featuring a persistent universe and online multiplayer. | References: [ citation needed ]

Escape Velocity:
    Release year: 1996 | Developer: Matt Burch , Ambrosia Software | Publisher: Ambrosia Software | Platform: Mac OS | Notes: Effectively a modernized shareware Elite clone with RPG elements, with an extensive modding community. | References: [ citation needed ]

EV Override:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: Matt Burch, Peter Cartwright, Ambrosia Software | Publisher: Ambrosia Software | Platform: Mac OS | Notes: Originally a third-party plugin for Escape Velocity , later adopted as an official sequel | References: [ citation needed ]

EV Nova:
    Release year: 2002 | Developer: Matt Burch, ATMOS Software , Ambrosia Software | Publisher: Ambrosia Software | Platform: Mac OS, Mac OS X, Windows | Notes: Third and final game in the Escape Velocity series (like EVO, also originally a third-party plugin), which also spawned a trading card game set in the same universe | References: [ citation needed ]

Eve Online:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: CCP Games | Publisher: CCP Games | Platform: Mac OS X, Windows | Notes: Player-driven, persistent-world MMORPG set in a science fiction space setting | References: [ citation needed ]

Rebel Galaxy:
    Release year: 2015 | Developer: Double Damage Games | Publisher: Double Damage Games | Platform: Mac OS X, Windows | Notes: Modern freeform set in a dynamic science fiction space setting | References: [ citation needed ]

Evochron Alliance:
    Release year: 2005 | Developer: StarWraith 3D Games | Publisher: StarWraith 3D Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Evochron Renegades:
    Release year: 2007 | Developer: StarWraith 3D Games | Publisher: StarWraith 3D Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Evochron Legends:
    Release year: 2009 | Developer: StarWraith 3D Games | Publisher: StarWraith 3D Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Frontier: Elite II:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Frontier Developments | Publisher: Konami , GameTek | Platform: Amiga , Amiga CD32 , Atari ST, DOS | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Frontier: First Encounters:
    Release year: 1995 | Developer: Frontier Developments | Publisher: Konami, GameTek | Platform: DOS | Notes: Often called Elite III. | References: [ 46 ]

Flatspace:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Cornutopia Software | Publisher: Cornutopia Software | Platform: Windows | Notes: Play is open-ended: activities available include trading, missions, exploration, bounty hunting, space piracy, and police work. | References: [ citation needed ]

Freelancer:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Digital Anvil | Publisher: Microsoft | Platform: Windows | Notes: Supports keyboard/mouse controls, no joysticks. | References: [ citation needed ]

Hardwar:
    Release year: 1998 | Developer: The Software Refinery | Publisher: Gremlin Interactive , Interplay | Platform: Windows | Notes: Ships never leave the planet, yet this futuristic sim is very similar to Elite. | References: [ citation needed ]

Infinite Space:
    Release year: 2010 | Developer: PlatinumGames | Publisher: Sega | Platform: Nintendo DS | Notes: First space combat sim with trading to become available for the DS. | References: [ citation needed ]

Jumpgate: The Reconstruction Initiative:
    Release year: 2001 | Developer: NetDevil | Publisher: 3DO , Mightygames, NetDevil | Platform: Windows | Notes: Prequel to Jumpgate Evolution | References: [ citation needed ]

Lightspeed:
    Release year: 1990 | Developer: MicroProse | Publisher: MicroProse | Platform: Tandy , DOS | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Moonfall:
    Release year: 1991 | Developer: Jukka Tapanimäki | Publisher: 21st Century Entertainment Ltd. | Platform: Commodore 64 , Amiga | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Nomad:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Intense Interactive | Publisher: GameTek | Platform: DOS | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Omnitrend's Universe:
    Release year: 1983 | Developer: William G. M. Leslie, Thomas R. Carbone | Publisher: Omnitrend Software | Platform: Atari 8-bit , Apple II , MS-DOS | Notes:  | References: [ 47 ]

Oolite:
    Release year: 2006 | Developer: Giles Williams | Publisher: aegidian.org | Platform: Windows, Linux, Mac OS X | Notes: Free software remake of original 1984 Elite | References: [ citation needed ]

Protostar: War on the Frontier:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Tsunami Media, Inc. | Publisher: Tsunami Media, Inc. | Platform: DOS | Notes: Electronic Arts originally contracted Tsunami Media to create Starflight 3: Protostar , this contract was canceled; game was released as Protostar: War on the Frontier, original Starflight and Starflight 2 are not included in this list as they are strategy / role-playing video game oriented and the view of the ship is a top down perspective | References: [ 49 ]

RiftSpace:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: StarWraith 3D Games | Publisher: StarWraith 3D Games | Platform: Windows | Notes: Released as freeware | References: [ citation needed ]

Rebel Galaxy Outlaw:
    Release year: 2019 | Developer: Double Damage Games | Publisher: Double Damage Games | Platform: Windows, Nintendo Switch, PS4, Xbox One | Notes: Prequel to Rebel Galaxy . | References: [ citation needed ]

Space Vikings:
    Release year: 1982 | Developer: Mitchell Robbins | Publisher: Sublogic | Platform: Apple II | Notes:  | References: [ 50 ]

Universal Combat:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: 3000AD | Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive, Inc. | Platform: Windows | Notes: The follow-up to the Battlecruiser series from Darek Smart | References: [ citation needed ]

Wing Commander: Privateer:
    Release year: 1993 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: DOS, Macintosh | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Privateer 2: The Darkening:
    Release year: 1996 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Electronic Arts | Platform: DOS, Macintosh | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Space Engineers:
    Release year: 2019 | Developer: Keen Software House | Publisher: Keen Software House | Platform: Windows, (Xbox TBD) | Notes: Open ended sandbox with modelled physics, voxel environment builder game. Single- and Multiplayer. Trade enabled through DLC. | References: [ citation needed ]

Space Force: Rogue Universe:
    Release year: 2007 | Developer: Provox Games | Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive, Inc., JoWooD Productions | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Space Rogue:
    Release year: 1989 | Developer: Origin Systems | Publisher: Origin Systems | Platform: DOS, Macintosh, Amiga, Atari ST, FM Towns | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Starpoint Gemini:
    Release year: 2011 | Developer: Little Green Men Games | Publisher: Little Green Men Games, Iceberg Interactive | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Starport: Galactic Empires:
    Release year: 2004 | Developer: PlayTechTonics, Inc. | Publisher: PlayTechTonics, Inc. | Platform: Windows | Notes: MMORPG, free to play, with optional items able to be bought with real money | References: [ citation needed ]

Starglider 2:
    Release year: 1988 | Developer: Argonaut Software Ltd. | Publisher: Rainbird Software | Platform: Amiga, Atari ST, DOS, ZX Spectrum | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

SunDog: Frozen Legacy:
    Release year: 1984 | Developer: FTL Games | Publisher: Accolade | Platform: Apple II , Atari ST | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Tachyon: The Fringe:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: NovaLogic | Publisher: NovaLogic | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

Taikodom:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: Hoplon Infotainment | Publisher: Hoplon Infotainment | Platform: Windows | Notes: Considered a MMOG | References: [ citation needed ]

Terminus:
    Release year: 2000 | Developer: Vicarious Visions | Publisher: Vatical Entertainment | Platform: Windows, Mac OS, Linux | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

X: Beyond the Frontier:
    Release year: 1999 | Developer: Egosoft | Publisher: THQ , SouthPeak Games | Platform: Windows | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

X2: The Threat:
    Release year: 2003 | Developer: Egosoft | Publisher: Deep Silver , QV Software International | Platform: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

X3: Reunion:
    Release year: 2005 | Developer: Egosoft | Publisher: Deep Silver, Enlight | Platform: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux | Notes:  | References: [ citation needed ]

X3: Terran Conflict:
    Release year: 2008 | Developer: Egosoft | Publisher: Deep Silver, Enlight | Platform: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux | Notes: Final chapter in the story of the X series of games | References: [ 51 ]

X3: Albion Prelude:
    Release year: 2011 | Developer: Egosoft | Publisher: Egosoft | Platform: Windows, Linux | Notes: Continuation of the X series of space simulation games | References: [ citation needed ]

X Rebirth:
    Release year: 2013 | Developer: Egosoft | Publisher: Egosoft | Platform: Windows, Mac OS X, Linux | Notes: Continuation and reboot of the X series of space simulation games | References: [ citation needed ]

X4: Foundations:
    Release year: 2018 | Developer: Egosoft | Publisher: Egosoft | Platform: Windows, Linux | Notes: Continuation of the rebooted X series of space simulation games | References: [ citation needed ]

Xiphos:
    Release year: 1990 | Developer: Voodoo | Publisher: Electronic Zoo | Platform: Windows, Amiga, Atari ST | Notes: Play resembles Elite , involving first-person space shooting and trading | References: [ 52 ]

